There’s no doubt about it – communication skills are vital to success.

in-trin-si-cally
pre-schooler
dis-tant
in-tro-ver-ted
Con-tra-ry to
grave-mistake

All the self-development in the world remains useless until you are willing to put into practice everything you’ve learned.

However, I’ve got a confession to make

Communication is like any other skill – the more you practice, the better you become.

1. Listen
Listening is so much more – it’s a way of providing someone else the chance to share their thoughts and ideas, to build emotional intimacy, and to show empathy.

when someone gives us the chance to talk about what has happened to us and how we feel about it, we start to realize the best way to change our thoughts and behaviors.

OUtstanding Listener Tips
1. Use non-intrusive verbals
2. Use non-veral singals
3. Someone needs a few momens to get their thougs organized. Give them space.
4. Let them keep going unitl they run out of steam.
5. One of the most useful, fundamental – and difficult – listening skills of all is to keep quiet and let the other person hold the floor.
6. Do not play the role of armchair psychologist: 
When someone shares important information with you, do not speculate about their personal motivations, or why they behave in a particular manner. At best, you’ll come across as a bit too nosy. At worst, your conversation partner will feel patronized and angry. At you.
7. Do not interrupt with unsolicited advice:
Do not offer your ideas or solutions unless asked for them. There are few things more annoying than unwanted advice or suggestions.
8. Resist the urge to tell them that you know exactly what they are going through.
9. If your conversation partner asks for your input, then go ahead – but gauge their response. If they appear open to your feedback, continue. However, if they start frowning, crossing their arms, or give any indication that your advice isn’t helpful or welcome, stop and ask whether they want you to continue.
10. being. I prefer the first response since it reflects an absorption of the meaning behind the words in addition to the words themselves.

