10 habits you need to stop

1. WHITE LIES

Are you a truthful person? Many people lie without realizing what they're doing these lies are called  white lies. little fibs we use to protect ourselves   and preserve the peace in our daily lives. you  might lie about an email that you forgot to send.    you might lie about why you're late to a meeting  at face value. white lies are relatively harmless   but over time they build up. white lies accrue  in the back of your mind like the dust on your   ceiling fan you may not see the dust you may not  realize it's there but that doesn't stop your fan   from spraying dust all over your room, so it's  time to start telling the truth even if it gets   you in trouble. the truth isn't always easy but  it is liberating if you make a mistake. the best   thing you can do is face the music because lies  even white lies can cause trouble down the road.




2. THE WRONG SHOES
when you think about  bad habits shoes may be the last thing on your   mind.  most people don't think about why they  wear the shoes they wear you like most people   buy whatever shoes are comfortable or cheap  but the wrong shoes can create aches and pains   corns and calluses shin splints and ankle sprains  it's not just your feet that suffer poor support   creates excess tension in the legs hips and back. walking running and jumping put a lot of stress   and pressure on your body. so if you're buying the  wrong shoes your body is going to pay the price.

3. SLEEP DEPRIVATION
how much sleep  do you get each night?  a good night's sleep is   around 8 hours long yet many people neglect  their sleeping habits you may stay up too late.    you may go to sleep at a different time every  night but what happens when you wake up you feel   more exhausted than you did the night before you.   want nothing more than a few more hours of sleep   but you don't have enough time your day is  starting whether you're ready for it or not   so why do so many people struggle with this  bad habit. it's difficult to see the direct   impact of a good night's sleep. when you  accomplish something in your daily life   you feel a sense of accomplishment you can  see with your own two eyes what you achieved.    but a good night's sleep eight hours of  unconscious slumber may not feel as important.    as your work or your hobbies but your sleep  schedule impacts your entire life sleep gives   you energy and motivation it stores memories it  clears your thoughts and detoxifies your brain   sleep is an essential part of your life  whether you realize it or not so to get   rid of this bad habit create a consistent sleep  routine make time for eight long restful hours   the well-rested brain performs when it counts so  give your brain the downtime it needs to succeed  

4. SUNBURNED SKINof all the bad habits  on this list this one may be the easiest to fix. in the summer months everyone wants that perfect  bronze tan but most people end up with a cherry   red burn a sunburn seems like a harmless  mistake right who cares if your skin turns   red and itches for a couple of days but a sunburn  can cause lasting damage and serious side effects   when you hear the word sunscreen you may think  of the beach but sunscreen protects your skin no   matter where you are or what you're doing so carry  sunscreen anytime you go outside in the sunlight   don't let your skin get burned week after week if  you curb this bad habit you can protect your skin   for years to come




5. INVISIBLE FLAWS
when you look in the mirror what do you see?  some people   notice how handsome they look others focus on  the teeny tiny flaws in their appearance the   bumps on their skin the asymmetry of their nose  the wild hairs in their eyebrows you see these   little quirks with perfect clarity but i've got  news for you you're the only one who sees them no   one except you notices those small irregularities  just think about how many times you've seen your   own face more times than you can count right  you know your face so well that you can spot   the tiniest flaws but to the rest of the world  those flaws are practically invisible so stop   worrying about these invisible flaws you may think  everyone staring at the weird bald spot on your   head or the little chip in your tooth but they're  not no one sees your flaws quite like you do  

6. THE ADHESIVE SCREEN

how long do you  spend staring at a screen each day? we type on   our computers for work we spend hours staring  at our phones texting playing games or browsing   social media it feels natural because screens have  an extraordinary adhesive power your eyes stick to   your screens like glue you don't want to look away  even for a second but your screen time can impact   your eyes your brain and your lifestyle first and  foremost screens can ruin your eyesight according   to harvard health publishing many avid users  experience computer vision syndrome which drives   your eyes and strains your vision your eyes are  so focused on your phone your laptop you forget   to blink you normally blink 15 or more times in  a single minute while staring at a screen that   number plummets to five measly blinks because you  forget to blink your eyes dry out and your vision   could worsen over time but poor eyesight isn't  the only effect on this unhealthy habit harvard   health also explains how screen time damages your  brain it causes headaches increases fatigue and it   worsens cognition according to another study from  the university of scavenger in norway reading from   a screen actually decreases reading comprehension  last but not least screen time is associated   with poor lifestyle choices sedentary habits  encourage laziness and a lack of productivity   screens can absorb a huge chunk of your day  alright let's say you're watching tv you may   tell yourself oh i'll just watch one episode but  one episode may spiral into hours of wasted time   be conscious of the time you spend staring at  a screen set some healthy boundaries and that   way your brain can rest and unplug 

7. MOUNTAINS OF DEBT

do you spend more money than you   make? are you constantly worried about paying your  bills countless people struggle with debt after   years of reckless spending their finances get out  of control but instead of unearthing themselves   from that mountain of debt they dig themselves  deeper it's time to stop spending more than you   can afford the world is full of expensive luxuries  but here's the truth you don't need 99. 9 of them   instead of swiping your credit card control  your spending set spending limits for each   week take time to organize your finances  and find ways to enjoy free activities   you don't have to spend loads of money to have fun  so quit building your mountain of debt and start   digging yourself out

8. COMPULSIVE EATING

do you eat even if you're not hungry?   many of us eat three meals a day out of habit  you eat breakfast in the morning lunch in the   afternoon and dinner in the evening you've trained  your body to seek out food in these regimented   time slots but you rarely consider how hungry that  you actually are so instead of eating when you're   supposed to eat eats when you're hungry this  healthy habit rewires your body and your brain   you'll stop searching for food three times a day  and you'll start listening to your body's signals  

9. HEAVY BURDENS

do you carry  ar/ound a heavy backpack everywhere you go   this bad habit flies under the radar but  it has long-term effects on your body   a heavy bag creates tension in your back neck  and shoulders the weight of your bag compresses   your spine which creates a hunch in your back  and lifelong soreness poor posture is another   common side effect if you're bearing weight on a  daily basis your neck and spine may change shape   your muscles may weaken around these sensitive  areas and your neck will lurch forward   poor posture can damage your appearance and  your physical health for example people with   poor posture adopt a slouch when they sit or stand  which makes them look shorter and heavier luckily   there's an easy solution just take a load off find  ways to lighten your bag and relieve the tension   in your neck and spine catch this bad habit early  and you can fix your posture in no time

10. NAIL BITING

this common vice affects millions of  people around the world people of all ages and   backgrounds bite their nails every day some people  bite their nails when they're nervous others do   it when they're restless or bored whatever your  motivation nail biting is a bad habit it's time   you said goodbye why is nail biting bad for you  well for starters it doesn't look good when you   see someone biting their nails you view them in  a negative light you judge them more harshly all   because of one bad habit more importantly nail  biting is a health hazard you gather all kinds of   germs on your hands throughout the day in the span  of five minutes you may pet your neighbor's dog   touch your doorknob and use the bathroom  imagine biting your nails after all that   germs accrue under your nails so all those  germs are going straight into your mouth   it can be challenging to quit like any compulsive  habit it's difficult to resist chewing on your   fingertips but stopping this bad habit may be  the best decision you ever make