I used to work in a medical shop.
I used to believe everyone.
I used to call her everyday.
I used to stay clam when they arguing with me.
I didn't use to my job.
I didn't use to read hindi properly.
I didn't use to tell her stories.
I used to accept friendship from everyone.
She used to accuse me for not being available.
She used to accuse her brother of not on time.
I didn't use to falsy accuse someone.
Mounika used to achive amazing marks in every exam.
Sravani didn't use to study well.
I didn't use to call her.
My didn't use to read acknowledgement letter.
She didn't used to acknowlege me.
The company didn't use to acknowlege working employees. Now it is get used to appriciate employees.
How long does it take to aquire good communication skills.
When I was little, even if I tried to study hindi, I didn't use to aquire proper meaning.
If you put your honest efforts, you would aquire good knowledge withing short span of time.
I would love to use my aquired skills in my new job.
I would love to apply the newly aquired skills in my new job.
Hip hop music is an aquired taste.

 I really admire your enthusiasm.
 I really admire her hardworking.
 I really admire your interest in bible.
She admire me for my hair.
She admired by her teachers for he great writting skills.
I admire the way you regected my request.

Put off your mobile, try to admire the nature.
I admire the way she behave in the publie.
I adimre the way she dressed.
I admire her for her dressing style.

It was a stupid thing to do, I admit.
Do not be afried to admit your mistakes.

I admit to my mistakes.
What I said is wrong, I admit that.
 I really admire your enthusiasm.


admit
acknowledgerecognizeconcedeconfess

It is abvious that she adores him.
I adore working with her.
I can't afford to buy a new watch now. But in future I could afford everything.

We don't anticipate any major problems.
The eagerly anticipated movie will be released in next week.
I anticipate working in the software company.
She anticipate getting marry.

surprise
startle amaze stun astonish take somebody aback astound

Sorry, I didn't mean to startle you.


 
