Ps: 1
counsel noun:  a piece of advice
In the end, wiser counsels prevailed.

mockers: scoffers
The Lord scoffs at them.



DELIGHT IN THE LAW OF THE LORD.
MEDITATE ON IT DAY AND NIGHT.

yields: Bearing fruits
the total amount of crops, profits, etc. that are produced

the congregation of the righteous:
a group of people who regularly attend a particular church.

perish: destruction

wicked-wickeder-wickedest

wick noun: the piece of string in the centre of a candle

mischievous adjective
a mischievous grin/smile/look
/ˈmɪstʃɪvəs/

leisure: free time
Make the most of your leisure time!

Ps 2:
Then in anger he rebukes them,
    terrifying them with his fierce fury.


heritage:
I will make the nations your heritage.
inheritage
I'll give you the nations as your inheritance.

Serve the Lord with reverent fear, and rejoice with trembling.

his wrath is quickly kindled: for his anger flares up in an instant.

Ps 3:
O Lord, you are a shield around me;
you are my glory;
the one who holds my head high.
the lifter of my head.
Arise, O Lord!

    Rescue me, my God!

Enemies: Foes

I lay down and slept;
    I woke again, for the Lord sustained(watching over) me.
Victory comes from you, O Lord.
Salvation belongs to the Lord;

Ps 4:
O God of my righteousness!

You have given me relief when I was in distress.

Be gracious(Have mercy on me) to me and hear my prayer!

How long will you people ruin my reputation?

Groundless accusations
Vain words

You have given me greater joy than those who have abundant harvests of grain and new wine.

Don’t sin by letting anger control you.
    Think about it overnight and remain silent. 
ponder in your own hearts

Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the Lord.

Ps 5:
Give ear to my words, O Lord; consider my groaning.

Listen to my voice in the morning, Lord.
    Each morning I bring my requests to you and wait expectantly.

 you cannot tolerate the sins of the wicked.

The boastful shall not stand before your eyes;
the proud may not stand in your presence.

The Lord detests murderers and deceivers.

Make your way plain for me to follow.

Make them bear their guilt, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out, for they have rebelled against you.

Their talk is foul, like the stench from an open grave

But let all who take refuge in you rejoice;

For you bless the godly, O Lord;
    you surround them with your shield of love.

Ps 6:
Don't rebuke me
in your rage/warth.

Have compassion on me.
Be gracious to me.

For in death there is no remembrance of you; in Sheol/Grave who will give you praise?

Have compassion on me, Lord, for(because) I am weak.

in agony.

How long, O Lord, until you restore me?

Return, O Lord, and rescue/deliver me.
save me for the sake of your steadfast love.

I am worn out from sobbing. All night I flood my bed with weeping, drenching it with my tears.

sob verb(noisy crying): weep, cry, shed tears, howl

drench(v): wet thoroughly; soak.
soak, saturate, wet, swamp, submerge, rinse, wash.

flood(n): an outpouring of tears.

My vision is blurred by grief; my eyes are worn out because of all my enemies.

The Lord has heard my plea; the Lord accepts my prayer.

ashamed/disgraced
May all my enemies be disgraced and terrified.

Ps 7:
O Lord my God, in you do I take refuge;
I come to you for protection, O Lord my God.

rescue me = deliver me

O Lord my God, if I have done wrong  or am guilty of injustice, if I have betrayed a friend or plundered my enemy without cause, then let my enemies capture me.

if,if,if - then


    Let them trample me into the ground
    and drag my honor in the dust.

flaming arrows

The trouble they make for others backfires on them. The violence they plan falls on their own heads.

Ps 8:





















































































