7 Ways to Appear Confident

Confidence is somewhat elusive.
The great thing about pretending to be confident is that eventually, you'll trick yourself into actually being confident. Like with good posture and conversational manners, the only thing preventing you from being able to implement these strategies regularly is practice. The more you practice appearing confident, the more naturally it will come to you, and the more confident you'll look and feel. With your newfound confidence, you'll be able to speak more articulately, command a more attentive audience, and be viewed with more respect by your peers.

1. Stand tall
Take up space by standing tall. Keep your shoulders back, and keep your spine straight.
People who slouch or minimize their bodies tend to be viewed as unconfident or uncertain.
Try POWER POSES.

2. Make eye contact
Eye contact is crucial for increasing your perceived confidence, and without it, you'll appear scattered or inattentive.

When you speak, look at your recipient's eyes, or if you're in front of many people, alternate between them.

The more you break eye contact or look around, the more indecisive or shy you'll seem.

3. Don't fidget.
Fidgeting is a major betrayer of low confidence, and most of us fidget without even realizing it.

Identify any peculiar quirks you may not notice about yourself.

4. Speak slowly and clearly.

Speaking too quickly or in a low tone of voice can make you appear less than confident.
Take your time with your sentences--it will give you time to come up with better word choices and will make you seem more confident at the same time.
Practice articulating your words clearly and in a loud voice so you're used to the approach.

5. Allow silences.
There's nothing wrong with a little bit of silence. 
it's actually a useful and necessary social tool.

Silences allow for consideration, and they show that you're confident in your speaking abilities. Don't neglect them.

6. Keep your hands visible.

Your hands say a lot about you, whether you realize it or not. Keep them visible and marginally active in the conversation.

It's also important not to hide your hands by stuffing them in your pockets or folding your arms. Keep them visible to appear more confident.


7. Take big steps.
This one comes into play when you enter, exit, or move around in a room. Take wide, surefooted steps with every move, rather than quick, hurried, or frantic steps. Don't be in a hurry to get anywhere, and remember to keep your body posture aligned. This slow, deliberate series of movements will make you appear confident, so much so that people several yards away from you will be able to pick up on it.







