IAM Identities
1. IAM Users


2. IAM Groups
A user group is a collection of IAM users.

3. IAM Roles


AWS Account Root User
root user credentials
unrestricted access to all the resources in AWS account



3. ROLES
Collection of Policies.

A role is a set of permissions that grant access to actions and resources in AWS. These permissions are attached to the role, not to an IAM User or a group.

Role is also an AWS identity with permission policies that determine what the identity can and cannot do in AWS.

A role is not uniquely associated with a single person; it can be used by anyone who needs it.



POLICIES AND PERMISSIONS IN IAM


POLICIES:
You manage access in AWS by creating policies and attaching them to IAM identities (users, groups of users, or roles) or AWS resources.

A policy is an object in AWS that, when associated with an identity or resource, defines their permissions.

AWS supports six types of policies:
1. Identity-based policies
2. Resource-based policies
3. Permissions boundaries
4. Organizations SCPs
5. ACLs
6. Session policies

AWS evaluates these policies when an IAM principal (user or role) makes a request.
Permissions in the policies determine whether the request is allowed or denied. Most policies are stored in AWS as JSON documents.


IAM policies define permissions for an action regardless of the method that you use to perform the operation.

For example, if a policy allows the GetUser action, then a user with that policy can get user information from
1. the AWS Management Console

If console access is allowed, the IAM user can sign in to the console using a user name and password.

2. the AWS CLI
3. the AWS API
If programmatic access is allowed, the user can use access keys to work with the CLI or API.


One Liners

POLICY
A policy defines the AWS permissions that you can assign to a user, group, or role.

ROLE
An IAM role is an identity you can create that has specific permissions with credentials that are valid for short durations. Roles can be assumed by entities that you trust.


MFA: Multi-Factor AuthenticationIAM
IAM: Identity and Access Management


Users:
An IAM user is an identity with long-term credentials that is used to interact with AWS in an account.

Select AWS credential type
1. Access key - Programmatic access

Enables an access key ID and secret access key for the AWS API, CLI, SDK, and other development tools.

2. Password - AWS Management Console access

Enables a password that allows users to sign-in to the AWS Management Console.

Account ID: 6990-6959-8518
IAM user: Maximus
