THE EISENHOWER DECISION MATRIX

so, here's a story that i bet you are intimately familiar with. I wake up in the morning, i go through my morning routine, and then i eventually sit down to work. And right when i sit down, i know what i need to do. I have a video script i need to finish and i need to send some feedback to a partner on a project we're working on. But then i remember that i also need to send in the rent check for my apartment, and i also have 32 un-entered emails in my inbox. And some of those people are probably getting annoyed with me at this point, and oh, the lawn is getting long, as well, and needs to be mowed. All the sudden i have 18 different things i need to do and i really don't know which one i should be working on first. Now, if this story does resonate with you and i bet that it does, fortunately there is a tool that you can use to fix this problem.

And it's called

THE EISENHOWER DECISION MATRIX

It's a tool that you could use to more intelligently prioritize everything you need to do within a day or within a longer period of time and that will help you to get started more quickly on the most important tasks you have to deal with.

Now, as you might have guessed, this tool is named after Dwight D. Eisenhower, who, in addition to being the 34th president of the United States, was also an extremely productive person.
He served two terms as
president and during that time

he introduced both DARPA, which was the agency that helped to create the modern Internet, and NASA, which obviously got us to the moon. In addition, he was the Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces during World War II, played a huge part in the development of the Interstate Highway System, and was at one point the president of Columbia University.

And the secret behind Eisenhower's incredible ability to get things done, in addition to just a massive work ethic, was his ability to prioritize tasks effectively.

He once said that,

*******************
"What is important is seldom urgent and what is urgent is seldom important."
*******************
And this piece of philosophy, this belief that he carried throughout his life is the foundation of the Eisenhower matrix.

So, let's briefly talk about
how this matrix is set up.

Essentially it is a box with four different quadrants. And you have some labels at the top and on the sides.On the top, we have two labels: urgent and not urgent. And then on the side we've got important and not important. And each of the boxes corresponds to a combination of those two labels.

So, things that are

1. URGENT AND IMPORTANT:

Things that you should do right now. Again, going back to that quote, things are seldom both important and urgent, and in the case that they are, you should just do them right now.

2. IMPORTANT AND NOT URGENT:

Things that are not urgent, but that are important, you should decide what to do with them later or schedule them, essentially.You still need to do them, but they don't need to be done right now.

3. URGENT BUT NOT IMPORTANT

On the flip side, we've got things that are urgent but not important. So, they do need to be done fairly soon, but they're not really important for you. And in the case of these things, you should either delegate them, give them to someone else like your little brother, or automate them. Give them to the machines.

4. NOT IMPORTANT AND NOT URGENT

Finally, we've got things that are not important and not urgent. And, as you might expect, these are things that should just be simply deleted from your life altogether.




Now, the great thing about the Eisenhower matrix is that you can use it for both macro-level planning and micro-level planning, which means that you could use it for planning out something like your entire month, but also planning out a single day.


So, what I wanna do now is go through a couple of different examples for both macro and micro-level planning.

And let's start with macro.

Let's start with planning
out your entire month.

So, if you have your box drawn out

and you've got your list
of tasks, maybe in Todoist

or whatever task management
system you're using,

you can start to fill in each quadrant

based on your prioritization,
based on what's urgent,

based on what's important.

So, in the do box, we might have tasks

like saving your grandma
from a burning building.

Probably a big priority for
you, but more realistically

maybe it's something like
finishing a video script,

in my case.

I need to get this done
before I go off to VidCon

so I can give the footage to my editor.

That's both urgent and important.

Now moving over to the decide box,

we've got things like
planning out your semester

if you're a student.

Maybe studying for a math
test or buying groceries.

These things are all
important, or at least I think

they're important and you
might think they're important.

But they don't need to be done right now

so you should put them
in the decide column

so that way you're prioritizing

the things in the do column first.

That brings us down to the delegate box,

which is a bit of a tricky
box for a lot of people

because they often feel

like they can't actually
delegate things to other people

or they can't really think
of things in their lives

that they would give to someone else.

So, what I'm gonna do is split this box

into two pieces, both delegate
and automate should go here

because a lot of people have
opportunities to automate

the things that they are doing manually.

Great example here,

if you go into your credit card's website

every single month when you pay your bill,

you can actually automate that.

You can set up automatic payments.

Same thing for maybe
investing in your 401K

or investing in a mutual
fund if you do that.

And for a much more mundane example,

if you are currently
washing your dishes by hand

and you happen to have a
dishwasher sitting next to you,

well then let the robot
take care of that, as well.

Let it wash your dishes.

But all those automations aside,

there may actually be things

that you could delegate
to someone else, as well.

Now as somebody who
runs their own business,

I delegate things like checking my email

or editing this video, for example.

But there are other things

that you might be able to delegate.

Maybe you have a lawn
that you don't wanna mow.

Well, if you do something
where you maybe take the hour

that you were using to mow the
lawn to make some extra money

then it would make perfect financial sense

for someone to mow your lawn for you.

And the exact same logic applies

to something like changing
the oil in your car.

If it's worth it financially
for you to just go and pay

for someone to change your oil,

that saves you a lot of time.

Finally, we have the delete box.

These are the things that
are both not important

and not urgent and should, therefore,

just be ruthlessly cut out of your life.

Now there are some obvious examples here.

Maybe checking social
media, playing video games,

generally wasting time.

But I do wanna give you a
couple examples of things

that I recently cut out of my life

that I had previously
justified as important.

One of them is posting on
Instagram for business.

I had listened to lots of
Internet marketing gurus,

all kinds of people who said
this was super important

and I was spending a
lot of my time doing it.

But I eventually realized
that the payoff I got for it

really wasn't worth my time.

I was much better focusing
my efforts and attention

on more important tasks,
like making more videos

or working on secret, bigger projects.

So, I've cut that out of my life.

Similarly, on our podcast,
The College Info Geek podcast,

we used to have a three-camera setup

and we would constantly
switch between camera angles

during the entire course of an episode.

But I realized my editor
would have to sit there

for at least the run time
of the podcast episode,

often 60 to 90 minutes,
or sometimes even more

switching these camera angles.

So, what I asked her to do was
just post the podcast episode

using only the center
angle, which basically meant

that she only had to spend 15 minutes

kind of just dropping the
footage into Premiere,

exporting it, and then she was done

rather than watching
through the entire thing.

And interestingly,
someone actually commented

saying they liked the center angle more

because they could see the entire view

and see the reactions of the
person who wasn't talking.

So, we both cut something out

that took a lot of time in our business,

but also ended up with an
improved product as a result.

So, this brings me to a
really important point.

When you're prioritizing the things

that you have to do in your life,

you wanna ask yourself, why am
I doing each of these things?

Does my justification
actually hold up to scrutiny?

In the case of switching
the podcast camera angles,

we often use the justification
that it was really effortful.

We were putting lots of
effort into that production

and that must make it great, right?

But when we actually put
that assumption to the test,

we found out that we were wrong

and the simpler approach
was actually better.

So, with that being said, let's
move on to a micro example.

Let's talk about how you can
use the Eisenhower matrix

on a daily basis to
prioritize all the things

on your daily task list.

And I'm just gonna run you
through mine real quick.

So, in the do column, I have
finishing my video script

because again I'm leaving
in a couple of days,

I wanna get the footage
done as soon as possible

and I wanna get it to my editor.

So, that's the thing that
I need to be doing first.

Secondly, in my decide area

I've got things like
cleaning up the house.

I've got mailing in the rent check,

and I've got things like
guitar practice, as well.

These are all things that
I need to get done today,

but they aren't as
important as the first thing

that's over in the do box.

Okay, so moving on to that delegate box.

Honestly, today I didn't have anything

that I needed to personally delegate,

but something that does
happen on a micro basis,

on a daily basis is that you get requests

from family members.

Maybe your girlfriend
or your brother asks you

to do the dishes or
clean up a certain room.

And if you've already
prioritized all the other tasks

on your list and you realize
you don't have time for that,

then a great way to delegate

without actually having
to pay anyone money

is to push back on those requests.

Maybe ask them if they can
take care of it this time

and you'll get it at a later date.

And finally we have the delete box.

And on a daily basis,

I think that you're gonna
wanna list time wasters here

because a lot of us are prone to say,

checking social media,
or researching things

that we really don't
need to be researching,

like what's the best
gaming laptop right now.

We do these things because
we don't actually want

to do our work.

And by actually writing
them down in that delete box

and maybe keeping your
Eisenhower matrix on your desk

or within a quick view,
you can look at them

any time you get the temptation

to check Twitter or Instagram

and realize that you
have decided in advance

to cut that out of your life.

And that'll help you get to the things

that you need to be doing more easily.

Now if you wanna get even
better at structuring your time

and prioritizing your tasks,

then I'm gonna recommend
you go and take my friend

Mike Vardy's class

called Productivity Habits
That Stick Using Time Theming

which you'll find on Skillshare.

This class teaches you how to
effectively split up your work

and theme your days, which
will both improve your focus

and increase your output, as well.

And because it's on Skillshare,

once you have your subscription,

you've gone through that course,

you're also gonna have unlimited access

to more than 28,000 other courses

across a ton of different topic areas

that can both improve your
creativity and your skills

and your career prospects,

including classes on web
development, graphic design,

digital animation,
marketing, productivity,

and lots, lots more.

Plus, within their course library,

you're also gonna find a course from me

which is all about building
a productivity system.

So, if you wanna improve the
way you use your to do list,

your calendar, and your
note-taking system,

and all kinds of other bits of technology

to help you be more productive,

you might wanna take that course, too.

Now Skillshare is already
an incredibly affordable

loading platform with
their monthly subscriptions

being less than a Netflix subscription

and a heck of a lot more
useful to your future.

But if you do wanna try it for free first,

all you have to do is go to the link

in the description down below and sign up

to get a two-month free trial
with unlimited learning.

Big thanks, as always,
goes out to Skillshare

for sponsoring this video

and being a big supporter of my content

and thank you for watching, as well.

Hopefully you found this useful.

Hopefully it helps you
to prioritize your tasks

and get more organized.

And if you found it useful,

then definitely hit that like button

and maybe get subscribed right there

if you haven't done so already.

You can also click right there
to get a free copy of my book

on how to earn better
grades, which might help you

since back to school is
right around the corner.

Otherwise, click right over
here or right over here

to find a couple of more
episodes on my channel

if you haven't seen them already.

Thanks as always for watching

and I will see you in the next video.

