12th
I wanna talk with NO-ONE. I just switched off my mobile when I saw my medical reports. I felt really sad. I don't even have anywords to say. Why this happened to me. I kept asking the same question and tried to figure out what my sin is.

Tomorrow, I wanted to go for CARONA checkup. I don't wanna let my healgh spoil again combined with COVID.
I don't know how this turn out. However, I wanted to be cure.

GUMS Inflamation: I was suffering from Inflamation apart from this CRP. It's literally killing me whenever I take a byte. I wanted to be cure.

13th: Day 1 Injections: I happily stepped into my GOVT HOSPITAL. I was a bit off, but I need to gather my energy to back on my feet. Medical student are practicing on me, I mean they themselves took my sample. As I was waiting for my test results. A meracle happened.

UNEXPECTED VISIT.
I wanted to share my pain with doctor. I tried to ask her about the CRP but she retorted me to show exact reports. I had to send me Dad back to grab my reports. When she saw my results she immidiatly alerted me that I had double typhoid and blood infections. When I heard this I was stunned and have no words to say.

She gave me 3 days 4 injections doses(Morning -2 and Night -2) Total 12 doses

13, 14, 15 I have to give my days away to rest and injections.

I WAS FALLEN
When they tried to inject me my first dose. They had to insert Cannula into my wrist. While they were trying to find my nerve, I was intididated and fallen asleep. In my dream, I was moving and shevering. When I got up, there was some blood bleeing from my hand they had already applied Cannula into me.
(Cannula with Catheters & Injection Valve)

Immediatly, they gaven me seleeen. My Father told me he had skipped his beat.

I bought few fruits and came to home. I goal is to rest all day long.

immunity will gradually deteriorate.


14th: Day 2 Injections:
My GUMS Inflamation becoming worse. I was unable to eat anythiing. It is painful to bite a fruit/food.

I went to hospital Morning and Night to get remaining doeses.

Luckly Shaker babai sent me 2000 which he had owed to me.

15th: Day 3 Injections, went to KGF chapter-2 movie.
Today, I became a bit better. I chatted and talked with Swathi more time than usual. While chatting with her, My Cannula detached from my wrist  Oh my Agony. And my Sister Ammu and I booked ticked for movie KGF. 

I was terrified how to get inserted another Cannula into me agan. At the beginning I made a scene. I don't wanted to repeat it.

Luckly the new nurse had given me dose at my elbow area. Then me and Sumanth went stright to movie.


I wanted to chat with Swathi more than watching the movie. I regreat about this shit movie. I distress and flet sad about came here with Ticket of of 240.









16th: 
16th Midnight Swathi called me, I unexpectedly awoke and started chating with her. I don't need to say esspecially how we were chatting. She has fallen into me.

When to Hospital to just recheck my medication. New doctor not the earlier one, wrote me few medications that I had to follow. I came back home with few medicines in my pocket and fruits.

I spent all the day chatting/reading.

NIGHT CHAT WITH SWATHI
We chatted till 1am. I was the one who splet in between the chat. She was wet and on, she kept pushing me flirting. She told me how she does when the time to give milk to my babies. and I felt asleep.

She filled my Galary with all of her pictures.

17th: Just staying in my home. Today is resurrection day. I woke up at 8am. Swathi called me and prayered for me. When I woke up there were several missed calls in my mobile all were from Swathi only. I was really happy seeing those. It was blessed to have a person like her in my life. but the Problem was all she does is bosting about herself.

Ani pinni, Pedhamma came home. They eat and spend time here almost all the day. Sumanth and I are enjoying their conversations about Ramesh's marriage.

MY STATUS
I updated my status with a Jesus song. I actually uploaded that in my Jeevavakaym YouTube channel. I don't wanna feel shy about My Lord Jesus.







