25th June, 2022, Saterday.

Today, I spent most of the day learning Spring Security and JWT concepts. I didn't have interst to watch movies, in fact I was obessed with the coding.

Saterday, I recived a call from Srikanth Background verification person. He need to confirm my location. I called Avinash but he didn't lift my call, perhaps he had jelous of my vicory. I called to my another Avinash Bandi, he helped me and asked me for current bill. I paid him 200.

I had no money then. I tried to call my friend Goutham. I asked him, but he refused. He told me he has no money. Then I realize how much shit he was. As we were best friends since diplome and he know I got a job. Anyway, I learned a lession.
I called Uday and he gave me.

At evening, I have already given my word to Swathi to meet her. If I missed, she would bring this up all the week. Therefore, I prompted to meet her. When I reach there(Dhilshuknager) the time was 7:00pm. I left there by 10:00pm. I thought I would miss the Metro Train but my furtune, I hadn't.

26th June, 2022, Sunday.

Today I instisted and willing to go church. Soundharya also wanted to come with me. We could reach church on time. She enjoyed the service. I had no money then, I took some money from Soundharya and told her I would give her later.

After that I took her to Paradise Hostel and we had some Biryani. Cost: 420. I paid this price through HDFC Credit card.

While we were going to Paradise, there were footpath shops, they selling 100rs shirts. I really impressed with that quality and bought two shirts.



27th June, 2022 Monday

I haven't done much today. I thought that if I had office, my journal leanth would increase, but it was reverse. I had nothing to write except Project hasn't started and I was practicing my own stuff.

Today I went to office with green shirt, dark green pant with slightly paled shoes. I literally couldn't talk with anyone just because of my outfit. I REALIZE, OUTFIT IS THE FOREMOST THING TO BE CONFIDENCE.

Swathi told me that she was going to vacent her hostel. Just because her hostel had been shifting to some another place. So she had to vacent her hostel. I called and talk with me till 12pm.

28th June, 2022 Tuesday

One stupid thing happed. Yesterday one Background verification team has called me and asked me about my staying and I told them I was shifted from RTC-X-Road to Dhurgam Cheru. Then they put a red mark on it, and my Hostel has to be verified as my location. HR called me and told me the same. She want my Hostel Reciet and Current bill.

Today, I scold the shif of of a person. I told him not to smoke inside bathroom as it was next to my bed. He did the same again and had to face my angry.

I taked to sumanth for sometime. He told me he has no money as of now.

Today Swathi asked me 1500. I owed her 3500. I gave her, she bought a geans and 2 tops with that money. I don't know why she was interested in dressing. I would cry to put that much money in outfit itself. In fact, I was thinking several time to buy a pair of shoes.
 
29th June, 2022 Wednesday

Today Soundharya called me and asked me to RC her mobile. I knew I owe her 200rs. I tried to RC her mobile but failed. I have nill balance.

I practiced Query Methods, JSPL Queries, Sort and Pagition along with that Steams concepts.

I brought bag to office. My plan was, I would go to DMart after the EOS. I did the same. I went to DMark on foot, it's about 1.5km. I bought daily useage goods. TOTAL BILL: 926. I paid throught HDFC Credit card.

Since few days, I wanted to buy shoes but I hadn't go a time.

I called Ramesh and gave him strict warning and asked him to pay my money back till tomorrow evening.

MY BILLS:
--------





