S3-101
_______

S3: Simple Storage Service.

? S3 is one of the first services that has been produced by aws.
? S3 stands for Simple Storage Service.
? S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly scalable object storage.
? It is easy to use with a simple web services interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

What is S3?
S3
_____
S3 is a safe place to store the files.

It is Object-based storage, i.e., you can store the images, word files, pdf files, etc.

Bucket
_______

Files are stored in Bucket. A bucket is like a folder available in S3 that stores the files.

Universal Namespace:the names must be unique globally.

S3 is a universal namespace. Bucket contains a DNS address. Therefore, the bucket must contain a unique name to generate a unique DNS address.

DNS: Domain Name System
The Internet's system for converting alphabetic names into numeric IP addresses. For example, when a Web address (URL) is typed into a browser, DNS servers return the IP address of the Web server associated with that name.

HTTP 200:
If you upload a file to S3 bucket, then you will receive an HTTP 200 code means that the uploading of a file is successful.

Advantages of Amazon S3

1. Create Amazon S3 bucket: Containers and have Universal Namespace.
2. Storing data in buckets: Bucket can be used to store an infinite amount of data.

Unique Developer Assigned-key:
Each object can be stored in bucket and retrieved from bucket by using a unique developer assigned-key.
3. Download data: You can also download your data from a bucket and can also give permission to others to download the same data.

4. Permissions: Authentication mechanism keeps the data secure from unauthorized access.

5. Standard interfaces: S3 is used with the standard interfaces REST and SOAP interfaces which are designed in such a way that they can work with any development toolkit.

6. Security: Amazon S3 offers security features by protecting unauthorized users from accessing your data.


S3 is a simple key-value store

S3 is Object-Based. 
Objects consist of the following.

1. Key: It is simply the name of the object. For example, hello.txt, spreadsheet.xlsx, etc. You can use the key to retrieve the object.

2. Value: It is simply the data which is made up of a sequence of bytes. It is actually a data inside the file.

3. Version ID: Version ID uniquely identifies the object. It is a string generated by S3 when you add an object to the S3 bucket.

4. Metadata: It is the data about data that you are storing. A set of a name-value pair with which you can store the information regarding an object. Metadata can be assigned to the objects in Amazon S3 bucket.

5. Subresources: Subresource mechanism is used to store object-specific information.

6. Access control information: You can put the permissions individually on your files.

Amazon S3 Concepts:

Buckets:
Container used for storing the objects. No bucket can exist inside of other buckets. Every object is incorporated in a bucket.

Objects: Objects are the entities which are stored in an S3 bucket.

It consists two parts.
1. Object Data
2. Metadata: Metadata is a set of name-value pair that describes the data.

Keys: A key is a unique identifier for an object. Every object in a bucket is associated with one key.



Regions: You can choose a geographical region in which you want to store the buckets that you have created.


Important points to remember

> Buckets are a universal namespace, i.e., the bucket names must be unique.

> If uploading of an object to S3 bucket is successful, we receive a HTTP 200 code.

> S3, S3-IA, S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage are the storage classes.

> Encryption is of two types, i.e., Client Side Encryption and Server Side Encryption

> Access to the buckets can be controlled by using either ACL (Access Control List) or bucket policies.

> By default buckets are private and all the objects stored in a bucket are also private.
