Prologue
I haven’t always been a disciplined person. In the past I couldn’t follow even the simplest routines. I
had an unhealthy diet, exercised little (and hence, was overweight), and didn’t have the discipline to
commit to the process of changing myself.

Today, I follow a strict routine. I have a morning routine, go to the gym three times a week and
regularly practice several other sports including tennis, cycling, and swimming. I maintain a healthy
diet and constantly work on new, challenging goals to become a better person.
It took me years before I finally understood what discipline is and how to apply it in my situation.
Now I’d like to share what I’ve learned with you.

In my first book about self-discipline, How to Build Self-Discipline: Resist Temptations and Reach
Your Long-Term Goals, I approached the subject of building self-discipline from the perspective of
developing impulse self-control.

In this book you will learn the ins and outs of building long-term, daily self-discipline rather than
just situational willpower. While How to Build Self-Discipline was more focused on techniques to deal
with specific problems, Daily Self-Discipline is about turning yourself into a person who becomes
more self-disciplined with each day – and can successfully use this skill for personal growth.
In addition to discussing tips to help you grow self-discipline, we’ll also discuss various ways to
become a mentally stronger person. If you find it difficult to keep pushing in spite of obstacles, or if
you feel you lack willpower to continue when motivation runs out and discomfort kicks in, Daily
Self-Discipline is for you.

As in all my books, I spend little time discussing theory, instead sharing with you practical
exercises you can implement in your life. Consider this book a menu out of which you can pick
various techniques to see which one tastes best for you (and produces the best results).
Each chapter is summed up with a quick recap to help you better remember what you’ve just read,
so you can have a quick refresher whenever you go back to each section.
To avoid repeating disclaimers throughout the book – please exercise caution whenever
following any of my tips – particularly the ones related to your health.
I’m not a doctor, nor a psychologist, nor a priest, nor anyone with formal credentials to tell you
what you should do with your life. I’m not qualified to make any decisions for you or give you any
health recommendations – particularly if you suffer from chronic conditions such as diabetes,
hypertension, or mental illness of any kind (including mild depression).
