Imazination1

What you dare to imagine may one day just be the beginning of your very own legend that inspires others one day to chase their dreams.

You have all the reason in the world to achieve your grandest dreams. Imagination plus innovation equals realization.” 
-Denis Waitley

https://thesimplyluxuriouslife.com/power-of-our-imagination/

Texting, Facebook, video games, and other devices that capture our attention, can slowly dull one of our most powerful tools that is needed to create the life we most desire – our imagination.

“Watch your thoughts; they become words. Watch your words; they become actions. Watch your actions; they become habits. Watch your habits; they become character. Watch your character; it becomes your destiny.” – Frank Outlaw

https://neelraman.com/5-benefits-using-your-imagination-will-bring-to-your-life/

Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life’s coming attractions.

Imagination is the most marvellous, miraculous, inconceivably powerful force the world has ever known.

Imagination is the ability to form mental images of things, ideas or stimulation with no input from the five senses. It is the ability to build mental pictures of something that does not exist or has not happened yet.

As you practice deliberately using your imagination, you will enhance your creative abilities, which means you will have better thoughts about your life.

 When you give more focus to what you want, you will achieve it quicker.
 
 Using your imagination makes it possible to experience reality in a world inside your mind. If you use it well, you can create a reality that does not exist yet.
 
 Our imaginations should be ignited by them, allowing us to live beyond our perceived limitations. The power of imagination can help unlock your true potential.
 
 
 Action Step: Practice using your imagination for at least ten minutes every day. Pick something you want more clarity on or a problem you want to solve, then allow yourself to imagine what the ideal situation or solution would be.