Mark 12
Parable of the Evil Farmers

- Vineyard
- A fence
- Winepress
- A lookout tower.

the farmers grabbed the servant, beat him up, and sent him back empty-handed. 

tenant noun
a person who pays rent for the use of a room, building, land, etc. to the person who owns it

Greedy Evil Farmers: Let’s kill him and get the estate for ourselves!

“What do you suppose the owner of the vineyard will do?” Jesus asked.
he will come and kill those farmers and lease the vineyard to others.

TAXES
to trap Jesus into saying something

How they prise Jesus?
- You're honest
- Impartial
- Don't play favorites.
- You teach the way of God truthfully.

Jesus: Whose likeness and inscription is this?
People: Caesar's.
Jesus: Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.

Discussion about Resurrection
Sadducees: Religious leaders who say there is no resurrection from the dead. 

Jesus: For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.

The Most Important Commandment
This is more important than to offer all of the burnt offerings and sacrifices required in the law.

1. You must love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, and all your strength.
2. Love your neighbor as yourself.

Beware of the Scribes

 And in his teaching he said, “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts, who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.”

The Widow's Offering
Wr did Jesus sit down?
Opposite the treasury/Collection box/Offering box.

A poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny.

Jesus: Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box.

For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.

For they gave a tiny part of their surplus, but she, poor as she is, has given everything she had to live on.

A denarius was a day's wage for a laborer





















