May 26, 2022
I purched Java 8 New Features In Simple Way by Dhurgasoft. I wanted to learn Java 8 perfectly especially Streams API. I wanted to learn new features.

May 27, 2022

I have missed writting this pages. I haven't put must effords on writing my daily journel. I need to practice more.

I need to learn much more concepts in Springboot so that I would create my own WebApplications.

May 29, 2021
To my shame, I feel shameful to face any of my relatives. Even my own parents.

While I was talking with Swathi, dad called me. I remembered how he talked with me when I was there in my home when I was suffering from fever. He questioned me in very unplesent way so that I become unable to answer back. He called me continuesly for 5 times, finally I blocked him.

I wanna go somewhere to refresh myself, but just because I had no job. I couldn't show my face to anyone else. I can't just show up myself in their home and can't answer the unversal question "What is about your job?"



May 30, 2021

Two persons came to my room. Srikanth and Tagoor. I could not mingle with them as there was no proper topic to discuss with them.

In the morning I started reading Essentialism book for an hour and written detailed notes for that.

After that I completed few Java 8 features class by Durga.

I FINALLY BROKE THE HABIT OF SHARING MY PROBLEMS.
I felt bore by discussing my pain and problems. I restrained my lips not to discuss my problems with anyone else. All I can do is to hold in myself. Somehow deep inside my heart I believe something wounderful is going to happen.


VAMSHI BRO
I texted Vams about his events and asked me how his events had gone. He immediatly called me and told me few heart breaking things. He told me he just had missed the events by 5secounds gap. If he could make six more foots he would have reached the destination. Even he was trying to reach it, he could not make it. He told me he was struck my family problems can not go anywhere apart from that. Thus, he had to continue his job under any circumstaces.


CHAFF PEOPLE
Today, there are three members in my room. 1. Avinash, 2. Srikanth, 3. Tagoor.  As we are talking useless shit I came to realize how the hell their words are. Moreover, I couldn't find any great words in them. I need to be there for a little while and never let their mentality change my own perception about the life.

SWATHI CALL
I don't wanna talk with her much more. I wanted to stop talking with her. Especially romantically. I wanted to stop it, as soon as possible. She has been thinking whether to go her friend Priyanka marriage. To be frank, going to that marriage is not so significant. Let's see, if she goes to marriage, I  would think she is not for me. If she doesn't goes to marriage, I consider she was for me.

MY JOB
I wanted to get my finantual freedom back. I don't wanna depend on any bank. I don't wanna make banks rich.



















