Utmost adjective
https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/utmost_1?q=utmost


courtesy call noun
a phone call from a company to one of its customers, for example to see if they are satisfied with the company’s service
https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/courtesy-call

courtier noun: a person who is part of the court of a king or queen
courtesy noun: Politeness
courtesy adjective: provided free, at no cost to the person using it.
courtesy call noun: the company’s service.

exaggeration noun
https://www.oxfordlearnersdictionaries.com/definition/english/exaggeration?q=Exaggeration
exaggeratedly adverb
exaggerate verb
exaggerated adjective
exaggeration noun
exaggerate something: He tends to exaggerate the difficulties.

She has a tendency to dramatization.

elevator noun: Lift
elevating adjective: 
elevation noun: The process of getting higher/Imp rank.

Elevate verb: to give somebody/something a higher position or rank, often more important than they deserve.
SYNONYM raise, promote
 elevate somebody/something (to something) He elevated many of his friends to powerful positions within the government.
 elevate something (into/to something) It was an attempt to elevate football to a subject worthy of serious study.
He has elevated bad taste into an art form.


attempt noun: an act of trying to do something, especially something difficult, often with no success.
I passed my driving test at the first attempt.
Attempt to do something: They made no attempt to escape.

attempt verb
to make an effort or try to do something, especially something difficult.

divorcee noun:
a person whose marriage has been legally ended, especially a woman


ambitious adjective

ambitious: aspiring.
persevering adjective
perseverance
persevere verb

[convey, conveys, conveyed, conveyed, conveying]
communicate (a message or information).

[express, expresses, expressed, expressed, expressing]


[phrase, phrases, phrased, phrased, phrasing]
put into a particular form of words.
"it's important to phrase the question correctly"

[question, questions, questioned, questioned, questioning]


un-doubted
beyond doubt
without doubt
certain
in-disputable
ir-refutable
in-contestable
in-controvertible
un-questionable
un-deniable
un-mistakable
clear
patent
manifest
obvious
palpable

in-disputably
ir-refutably
incontestably
incontrovertibly
unquestionably
undeniably
undoubtedly
certainly
indubitably
unmistakably
clearly
patently
manifestly
obviously

She told me she was in her home.
She told me to go there.
She told me her sister had cruch on me.

She: I am filling for a divorce.
She told him she was filing for divorce.

nervously adverb:
​in a worried or frightened way
She smiled nervously.

relevant : suitable, appropriate.


apologize: apologizes, apologized, apologized, apologizing;

Future + Future
If I won the prize, I would take you to a movie.
I would be happy if she invited to her party.

Present + Present

Past + Past
If I had studied well, I would have the great job now.
If I had put air in the tires, I wouldn't have had a flat tire last night.
Bob would have known what to get only if he had asked his father.
If the students had more time, they would have finished their work yesterday.


Present + Future
If I were you, I would call Tom and apologize
If Bob had more time, he would attend the cooking class next week.
If Fred were here, he would go with us to Colorado on Thursday.




Present + Past
If I were you, I would have bought the red dress.
She she were in yellandu, she would have texted me.
If the teacher were here, she would have turned on the heater this morning.


Future + Present

Future + Past
If they weren't traveling to France on Thursday, they would have planned to attend your birthday party.
(They are planning to travel to France in the future, so they did not plan to attend the party.)
Day 1: She: Hi, Sunday is my birthday, you should attend to the party.
Day 2: He got a job interview call letter.
He weren't going to interview on sunday, he would have planned to attend her birthday party.


Past + Present

Past + Future

If I had worked harder at school, I would have a better job now.

If she had invited me to her birthday party, I would invite her to mine.

If I hadn't met her, I would have a bright future now.
I would have a job if I hadn't resigned from my previous job.
I would be a millionaire now if I had taken that job.

We couldn't buy that shirt if we had bought that tv.
We wouldn't buy that shirt if we had bought that tv.
If she had given me a positive response, I might help her to get a job.

If she had responded quickly to my text, she would be in a great position now.

If she had controlled her temper, he might have accepted her passport request.

If I had learned to ski, I might be on the slopes right now.
If I had that much money, I might not be here.

If she weren't afraid of flying, she wouldn't have travelled by boat.
If my dad were a millionaire, I would have bought the boat.
If she loved me, she would have invited me to her birthday.
If she had loved you, she would have invited you to her party.
She would have called me at night if she believed me.
You would have told me about that if you thought I was your family.

If I died for her, would she love me?
If I had died for her, she would have loved me.

If I apologized to her father, would she talk to me again?

Would she talk to me again if I apologized to her father?

Would you come to my home if I booked a ticket for you?
Would you lend me money if I asked for some help?
If she had invited me to her party, was that mean she has love for me?

If I won the prize, I would take you to a movie.
If I got a leave, I would take you somewhere.

If I, were you, I would have bought the red dress.
If I, were you, I would not have resigned from my job?
If she were in Yellandu, she would have texted me for sure.

I will call you within a few minutes.
They will inform me before the end of the month.
They will inform me by the end of the month.
They will let me know after the end of the month.
They will keep me posted regarding that.
I assume it right to notify her husband before killing her.

I thought it right to apprise Chris of what had happened.

They will let me know in a few weeks.
It has some clarity issue, send me another pic.


observe
leisure.
patience.
patients.

remarkable

