I love the way I am leaving... Its my life style.

The way you are learning new things day by day,
The way you are curious about new things,
The way you are up to date.
The way you are picking things, choosing perfect things.

I don't even know what I am doing, I am really upset with my decisions.

Don't beg!

Now am really lonely, I don't even know why, As my age grows my heart wants a girl.

Its really heartbreaking that a girl I love ignores me, but Its ok. My life moves.

Just focus on immediate next goals...


How Amusement kill your creativity.

As we can observe everyday technology is developing and we got so many social and entertainment networks. We can see that there were so many people out there addicted to this kind of amusement.

Always say to yourself you need some amusement but not now. there was so much time left for but before that you had to work hard to made your life more beautiful.

I hate tic toc, jabbardasth, patas, pranks, and the programs which sucks our valuable time.

Needs and Wants!

You should know the difference between the needs and wants.

Needs are the primary elements to buy to made your day to day life more convenient. These have the power to effect your life style. Care about these.

Wants are the things that you can postpone.

Movies to watch


FREE YOURSELF FROM ADDICTIONS.

Eat breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince and dinner like a pauper.
Breakfast:
1. Eat within 30mins of waking up.
2. Ideal time for breakfast is 7 to 8 am
3. Don't delay breakfast later than 10am.
4. Make sure you have proteins in breakfast

If you lose this girl, you may get better one next.
But If you lose this time, there is no better time than this.

It is better not to look at girl, please don't even give a fuck to girls.

Whatever happen, don't ever withdraw money from your savings.


Diary Jan 15th

Today I have moved to new room. I did not like that room but I have no chance in that time I need to shift as soon as possible as my room mates wants me to vacant room because of their sisters marriage.

I need to buy all over home goods it nearly costs 7,000, and I paid rent plus advance 7000. Total I spent 14,000 for the room. I need to do a mistake as other people always do is that I took money from my savings account.

In 50,000 in my savings account but right now I have ended up with account balance 37,000.

I need to save as much money as possible from up coming salary. I have to save minimum of 23,000 in to my savings account!

Yeah I have dept of 23,000 to my self savings account.

#quotes
> Always greey for time, don't waste away your time.

The boy in me wants you back. but the kind in me does not give a fuck.

Everyone wants to change their lifestyle, but finally ended up with failures. If you are also that kind of person who struggle to maintain constant lifestyle this article for you.

December month #salary
49,000/-
20,000/- Savings
8,000/- Credit card bills
7,000/- Kartheek

SBI YONO

User Name: SujithManchala
Password: 15 chars.

●	Curry bowls - 2
●	A large vessel - 1
●	Noodles bowl - 1
●	Tea bowl -1
●	Tea filter - 1
●	Pope glains
●	Spoons
●	Lids
●	Small cup bowls
●	Tea glasses - 5
●	Large glasses - 2
●	Plates - 4
●	Pop grains box - 1


I feel the change in me!

If you are busy improving yourself, you never felt alone.

Always think about great things.

Believe me, You don't need her!

Speaking style is everything.

I am strong enough to turn my sadness into joyfulness.

Yep,

Immutable: enduring / constant / stable / permanent / perpetual.

My Quotes 2020

> Chat now, Regret later. Stop now, Renew later!
> She is not good for you! Move on!
> Willing to chat? Regret later!

How to change your lifestyle.

If u r Willing to change your lifestyle u shd follow these simple step to enhance your confidence level to assure about success.

1. Avoid procastination: U shd complete ur works in time. Don't postpone any work, do it if u have time, start right now.

Self gratification...

Prevention is better than Cute.

It is not too late to start again.
OCT 2019 PLAN

Daily (1,2,3,5 Rule)
One New Topic
Two Grammar Rules
Three Acronym.
File new vocabulary words.

In the end of the month
2O New Topics
40 Grammar Rules
60 Acronyms.
100 Vocabulary words.

1,2,3,5 Learning Tip.

You should buy a note book for this to implement.

1. Learn daily one new topic.
2. Learn two grammar rules.
3. Memorize 3 useful words/acronym.
4. Learn daily 5 new vocabulary.

You can not learn 100 words efficiently in one day then you have to go for 5 works per day, finally you can learn up with 5x30=150 new words efficiently by the end of the month .

One or Two Grammar rules: Learning process should be going on. Improve your grammar day by day.

Life without Goals

Everyone should have goals, people without goals do not know what they leaving for and what their life is going to be in the future. I had to meet so many people without goals and leaving their life without any future hope.

Goals can be combined together to achieve better life and provide the feel of leaving.

Goals can be divided into two types.
1. Short term goals
2. Long term goals

Goals can be achieve in one day, in one week, in one month, or in a year.
Write down the goals in notebook before day start, try to achieve it and get some satisfaction.

If you want to build a home.
You need bricks, cement, water, sand, and labors. Even when you have all the resources you can not build a home in one day. These kind of things takes time. My suggestion is to construct bricks yourself first until you get enough bricks.

Things take time.

JOB QUOTES

WORK IS THE PROGRESS, U HV TO COMPLETE UA PORTION AND SHOULD HANDOVER TO NEXT ONE, THATS HOW PROCESS GOES ON.

TELL TRUTH EVEN WHEN UA HANDS SHAKE.

DON'T TRY TO HIDE UA MISTAKES, DON'T COVER UP.
WHAT WILL U DO WHEN UA MISTAKES REVILED.

ASK THEM, LEARN THEM.

I’ve been chasing happiness, and it was useless. And then I decided to live without happiness and just enjoy life. That’s why I’m happy now.” – An Old Man

Don’t chase happiness. Enjoy your life.

joke over and over. So why are you always crying about the same problem?”


Worrying won’t solve your problems, it’ll just waste your time and energy.

Luck won’t favor always.

A bird in hand is worth two in the bush.A bird in hand is worth two in the bush.
 