Spring Could Tutorial
---------------------
09:55 22-06-2022

Spring Cloud is a Spring module that provides the RAD (Rapid Application Development) feature to the Spring framework.

Spring Cloud framework provides tools for developers to build a robust cloud application quickly.

Bear metal data centers:
> It is a physical server dedicated to a single-tenant.
> The bare metal data centers are also known as Single-tenant physical server or managed dedicated server.
> The operating system is installed directly on the bare metal server and delivers better performance.


Cloud Foundry:
Cloud Foundry is an open-source, multi-cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS). You can deploy your application on your own computing infrastructure.


Features of Spring Cloud?
A primary concern to deal with the first two primary microservices: configuration service and the discovery service.

Load Balancing

Load balancing efficiently distributes network traffic to multiple backend servers or server pool.
1. Maximize throughput
2. Minimize response time
3. Increase efficiency
4. Optimize resource

Distributed Messaging
Apache Kafka and RabbitMQ are the popular high throughput messaging system.

Spring Cloud is a framework that provides facilities to use cloud services in your application. When it is used with Eureka, it acts as a container orchestration tool.



Microservice Architecture is a Service Oriented Architecture. In the microservice architecture, there are a large number of microservices. By combining all the microservices, it constructs a big service. In the microservice architecture, all the services communicate with each other.


Microservice Based Architecture (MSA)
Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA)


Microservices Monitoring Tool
There are three monitoring tools are as follows:
1. Hystrix dashboard
2. Eureka admin dashboard
3. Spring boot admin dashboard


Microservice Virtualization
Microservices virtualization is the method to simulate the behavior of specific components in various component-based application like cloud-based application, SOA, and API driven architecture.


Components of Microservices
There are the following components of microservices:

Spring Cloud Config Server
Netflix Eureka Naming Server
Hystrix Server
Netflix ZuulAPI Gateway Server
Netflix Ribbon
Zipkin Distributed Tracing Server

#Project Design
---------------

Dependencies
1. DevTools
2. Actuator
3. Config client
4. Spring Web

//name of application  
spring.application.name=limits-service      





















