Brainy Dose Presents:

12 Harsh Truths You Need to Accept to Live
a Happy Life

We all want a happy and fulfilling life.

But few people actually attain it.

It's unrealistic to keep doing the same old
thing and expect circumstances to change.

Unfortunately, that's not how life works.

Whether it be due to fear, laziness, or ignorance,
people often overlook the things that truly

make a difference.

Regardless of your current situation, accepting
the following harsh truths about life will

definitely contribute to your future happiness.

Number 1 - You're Not That Important

Remember that time you tripped and fell?

Some people laughed, and others asked if you
were okay.

Of course, you were fine but embarrassed beyond
belief.

You thought they'd be telling that story about
you for the rest of your life.

The truth is that you're just not that important.

You play a very minor role in other people's
lives.

As embarrassing as it was for you, everyone
else probably forgot about what happened after

a short while.

Just like you're wrapped up in your own life,
so are they.

And that's not a bad thing.

It's just a fact of life.

Number 2 - Not Everyone is Going to Like You

Remember that popular girl or guy in high
school who was always the center of attention

and everyone seemed to like?

Not everyone can be that person, and you shouldn't
strive to be.

Life isn't a popularity contest, and not everyone
will see your true value and appreciate you.

So instead of ruminating on that, consider
how you can be a better version of yourself.

Trying to prove yourself to others who don't
really matter anyway is a waste of time and

energy.

Live your life surrounded by people who accept
you as you are.

Number 3 - You Are Not Defined by What You
Have

A lot of people want to believe and try to
convince themselves that money doesn't matter

that much.

The truth is that money, while not everything,
is necessary to thrive in today's society.

It may not buy happiness, but it puts a roof
over your head, shoes on your feet, and food

on the table; all things we need to survive.

That being said, money and the things it provides
do not define who you are.

A person with a huge house and expensive car
is not necessarily better than someone who

lives in an apartment and rides the bus.

Regardless of what you have, ultimately, people
form their own perception of you based on

your consistent actions and how you impact
them personally.

Number 4 - You Always Have a Choice

We are not simply the victims of external
forces.

We have the power of choice, and you can decide
how you respond to what happens to you.

If someone were punching you in the face,
would you stand there and let them continue

punching you?

Hopefully not.

And while you might be tempted to punch back,
simply moving out of the way is likely a better

option.

Applying this example to everyday life, you
are the only one who can determine how others

treat you.

If someone shows no regard for your well-being,
it's completely acceptable to walk away.

The harsh truth is that how others treat you
is based on what you allow.

So, if you command respect, you'll be respected.

However, if you act like a doormat, it will
almost certainly ensure that others will walk

all over you.

Number 5 - Your Feelings Are Caused by Your
Thoughts

This is going to sound pretty meta, but we
don't feel any certain way about something

because of that thing itself.

Rather, we feel that way because of our perception
of that thing, person, or situation.

In short, our thoughts create our feelings,
and our feelings determine our behavior.

Therefore, if you want to feel differently,
start with your thoughts.

Number 6 - If You Don't Learn to Be Accountable,
You Will Be Held Accountable

Your words and decisions have consequences,
whether positive or negative.

If you don't hold yourself accountable, someone
else surely will.

On a macro level, accountability is required
to maintain order in society.

On a smaller scale, it helps us maintain our
integrity so that we can be better individuals

and lead happier lives.

Number 7 - People Want You to Do Well, but
Not Better Than Them

While some people genuinely want you to succeed,
others may just do so until you threaten to

outperform them.

Be discerning of others' motives and don't
waste your time or energy on those who don't

have your best interest in mind.

Ignore the negativity and keep working toward
your goals.

Dedication, persistence, and consistency will
get you where you want to go.

Number 8 - There Is No Perfect Time to Do
Anything

People often want to wait for the right time
to do something or make a change.

But regardless of what it is, you'll always
be able to come up with an excuse not to start

something whether it's due to a lack of money,
your age, not enough time, or anything else.

Unfortunately, the harsh truth is that the
perfect time doesn't exist, and that thing

you've been putting off may never get done.

Number 9 - Someone Always Has It Better, Or
Worse, Than You

Your situation could always be better, or
it could be worse.

Don't make the mistake of comparing yourself
to others.

It's counterproductive and often discouraging
since everything in life is relative.

What might be a cakewalk for you, might be
a challenge for someone else, and vice versa.

Always be compassionate to yourself and others.

Number 10 - Fear Will Keep You from Living

It's natural to experience fear when encountering
something new.

It's a biological response to the unknown.

But you can't allow it to hinder you from
trying different things.

Simply recognize that it's unfamiliar, and
approach it with an attitude of excitement

and curiosity.

If you don't face your fear, it can easily
lead to missed opportunities.

After all, life is full of exciting challenges
reserved for those who are bold enough to

step out of their comfort zone.

Number 11 - Your Expectations Are What Cause
Disappointment

When someone lets you down, it's usually the
result of your own unrealistic or misplaced

expectations rather than the shortcomings
of others.

Things don't always work out exactly as we
hope, and that's okay.

So keep your expectations in check.

It will prevent you from being disappointed
unnecessarily.

Number 12 - You Live the Life You Create for
Yourself

Taking ownership of your life is one of the
most empowering things you can do.

If you're unhappy with your situation, you're
the only person who can make the necessary

changes to improve it.

If you start your day off on the wrong foot,
you can either allow the rest of your day

to be ruined; Or, you can take control and
do what's necessary to turn things around.

The sooner you acknowledge that you alone
are responsible for and capable of creating

your own circumstances, the sooner you’ll
start to take steps toward living the life

you desire.

Most people don’t like to hear these universal
truths.

And while they may seem a bit harsh, they're
bound to pop up in your day-to-day life.

So, it's important to be aware of them and
to accept them.

Once you do, you'll find your days much happier
and more fulfilling.

If you enjoyed this video, give it a thumbs-up,
and share it with your friends, so we can

keep making them.

For more videos like this, hit the subscribe
button, and remember to click on the notification

bell.

Also, be sure to check out our other videos
as well.

Thanks for watching!

