i'm not good at coming up with answers i need to come up with a couple of ideas before 10.

Can you help me come up with something come up with something definition to think of something to say or you think of An idea whoever came up with the cronut is a genius.

Okay at the interview i hope they don't bring up my internship it was a really bad experience definition to start speaking about a topic don't bring up john's divorce okay don't start speaking about it i was talking to my grandpa the other day and he brought up the war stand out:

Definition to be noticeable because you are different or more impressive --------- i don't know how many people are going to be interviewed but i hope i stand out i hope i stand out.

If 10 people are being interviewed you want to stand out right which umbrella stands out?

The red one stands out look up:

To search and find specific information -------- For the interview i need to look up the location i need to look up the bus times and i need to look up i should probably look up the weather how do we look things up?

We normally use google right if you don't know a word in english look it up?

Figure out:

To think and find a solution ---------- i need to figure out how to get there.

I also need to figure out what to wear.

Figure out how/what/when/where/who we often say figure out plus question word because we're trying to find an answer to a question you know i still can't figure out why my computer is so slow.

Run out of:

You used everything but you still need more ---------- i'm also running out of time.

I've run out of cereal.

I'm running out of time.

I need more time i might run out of money before the end of the month.

Pop into:

You enter a place for a short time.

-------- on my way to the interview i'll pop into a coffee shop and pick up some breakfast.

I'm gonna pop into my husband's office I popped into a coffee shop and picked up a cherry banana muffin.

Pick up :

Collect --------- i picked up my kids from school.

Can you please pick up some milk on the way home?

I'll pick it up next week.

Drop off --------- i dropped off my kids at school.

I dropped off my suit at the dry cleaners.

I'll pick it up next week.

Threw away:

Put something in a trash can ---------- yesterday i threw away an old pair of shoes.

It's too bad the cherry banana muffin was no good but i'm trying to cut back on sugar anyway cut back on :

Reduce ----------- i eat this much sugar every day i need to cut back.

I drink four cups of coffee every day that's true i should probably cut back definition normally when we cut back on something it has to do with food drinks or spending walking to work can help you cut back on gas costs okay i'm on the subway now heading to my interview the subway is crowded it's noisy it's smelly i wish i had a car so i wouldn't have to put up with this definition if you put up with something something is negative like a crowded subway but you continue to accept it i only put up with my roommate because she pays most of the rent i've been putting up with your lies for years it's over hi i have an interview at 10 with hannah baker ok bear with me a sec please bear with plus person normally we just say bear with me definition please be patient while i do something else so here she says bear with me for a sec it's clear she needs to check my details and probably inform hannah baker that i'm here please bear with me while i check my notes okay now i'm at work i'm at my normal job and to be honest the interview was a disaster i really need to calm down definition to stop feeling angry excited or nervous you can calm down or you can calm someone else down gina was so upset this morning it took me 30 minutes to calm her down before she told me what was wrong okay i've calmed down i need to check my emails i should probably get back to dan and i have to get back to amy why hasn't movie gotten back to me yet definition if you get back to someone is you respond to them this is normally via email phone or message so i need to get back to dan let's get back to him together hi dan sorry for the delay in getting back to you yes uh paper delivery on monday would be perfect i look forward to seeing you next week or now smiley face look forward to plus noun or verb ing gerund definition i'm excited about something in the future every day i look forward to watching netflix in the evening i'm looking forward to my vacation next month i am here i'm supposed to be there remember i was late for work because of the interview i have to catch up on my work definition if you catch up on something you have to work or do something quickly because you are behind i have to catch up on my work i have to catch up on my homework my mom is gonna watch my baby this weekend so i can catch up on some sleep i have a lot of work to catch up on so i'll start by filling out these spreadsheets definition fill out to complete a form or document with information i filled out this form wrong i put in my details instead of my sons you can also say fill in you fill in a form fill in an application fill out is more american english fill in is more british english but they mean the same thing i know they look like opposites fill in fill out but they mean the same thing at work i sit next to vicki vicki and i get along really well i don't get along with trish i prefer not to speak to her definition get along with someone you have a good relationship and you like each other this can be any relationship friends colleagues husband wife any relationship why don't i get along with trish because she's always playing her music every day she turns up her music really loud i have to tell her to turn it down [Music] turn down your music please thank you definitions turn up volume up turn down volume down and we only use turn up turn down with um music or the tv we wouldn't use it for people for example you wouldn't say i'm sorry can you please turn up next to my desk there's also a vending machine they need to get rid of it with a vending machine next to me i always want to buy some chocolate remember i told you i'm trying to cut back on sugar get rid of something definition to remove it i have a lot of old clothes i want to get rid of if we get rid of something we can throw it away we can sell it or just remove it right i need to go over these spreadsheets before i submit them go over definition review i went over my notes before the test let's go over tomorrow's plan the spreadsheets look good i can hand them in i can hand them in definition if you hand something in you give it to an authority an authority this can be like a professor teacher policeman think about it like your hand you hand in like you're giving something i found a wallet on the street so i handed it in in this case it's obvious it means i handed it in to the police wow last one it's been a really long day hasn't it i'm so happy tomorrow saturday so i can sleep in definition to sleep longer than usual in the morning i normally wake up at six but on the weekends i can sleep in i want to sleep in but my baby wakes me up nice and early okay challenge for you leave me an example conversation down below and try to use at least three of the phrasal verbs from today's lesson thank you so much for watching see you next time bye
