Chapter 1

Once there was a boy named Max. After his academic holidays he had to go back to school again but not the same school. His father got transferred to yellandu so he had to join new school in yellandu.

When the first time he entering in to school he was nervous, hesitating. This is his first day to school, clsss had already started before he reached school. He rushed into school and was searching for his class. Finally found it class had already started.

He stood at the entry and asked for permit into class

"May I come in sir!" he was shy and nervous.
"Ok come in, R u new to class right"
"Yes sir"
"Introduce yourself to the class room"
"Hi all, I am max, I came from kothagudem. I studied my 9th grade in Little flower school"
"Ok, sit down"

He choosed to sat at the 3rd bech because it has only one person.

"Hi, I am max"
"Hi, I am dawnway"
Conversation going on...

1st period completed, 2nd period madam not yet present.
Then the leader of the class stood and try to control the class. When Hi saw her Hi unconsciously thought angel might be mistakenly born in world. She is gorgeous in white dress. Her sparkling eyes might be seized the entire universe drakness in her eyes, her side croped hair, pink lips. She weared a watch it shows how much she punctual, dicipleined.
He couldn't took his eyes away from her.

Time flying by like that...

He couldn't hold his curiosity to talk to her.
At that moment no one at the calls, She was writting her notes seriously. He just pretending like writing, After a huge war with his mind I called her

Chapter 2

"Jane, Have you completed physical notes"
"Yes"
"Give me your notes, My notes was not up to date."
"But I need this note, how could you give my notes back. You know that we have holidays from tomorrow"
"I will complete here itself before the end bell"
"Ok, do fast."

He took her notes, his heart rate decreased gradually and came to normal. He was not at all interested in writting notes.
He we has very Happy.


As soon as end bell rang, Max rushed out of the school with her book, He thought he could go to her home in the name of book. When Jane found out he had forgetten to give her book back, she became furious and got tears.

At night Max was not getting sleep, his mind finding several ways to talk to her, there was so many reharsals He slowly fallen into sleep.

he woke up at 6, he had already known her home before I came with the plan to run with her book. At 8am he went to her home.
"JANE,, JANE" he called her nervously.
Jane sister : Jane, Someone came for you.

"Maxxxxx......"
"I came to give your notes back"
"Ho! Thankyou, How could you know my home?"
"I searched in Google😊"
"I thought, you searched in maps."
"I think both are same"
"I will talk to you at school, I have to do some work"
"OK bye Jane"
"Bye"

At night, Jane opened her physics book and find a folded letter.
"I love you jane"

To be continue...

Chapter 3.


Once there was a boy. He found a dried flower plant in the bush. He wondered how beautiful it is, who had got hands to throw such a beautiful flowers pot away.

He took the plant to home.

Face the truth.

I always enjoy my dreams, because in dreams whatever we thought it would happen. I like to fantasize every comfort unture situation and get pleasure in that. Some are fictional never be happen, some are unknown how to make them happen.

I remembered when I got my SSC results, I can't even check my results myself, I was afired to face the results, I was aroused by negative vibes. Running alway from truth.

I don't wanna know about the pain in left side of my stomach!
I don't wanna check my bank balance after I draw down money.
I don't wanna text her first what if She won't give a fuck.
I don't wanna ask about the situations.
I was thinking about what if I get a negitive? Its btter to not to check the thruth.

Turth is either positive ⚪ or negative 🔴
I can't hear the negative statement, Instead I close my ears.
I can't see the negative that would break my heart.

For example:
There was a boy called raju. By the friends suggestions he forced to meet a prostitute to get experience. After few day we felt getting week, tired, weary all the time. he was afired that he would have gotten adies. We was afired to go hospital, he did not even dare to check his symptoms on the internet. All he do was terrifying about negitivity. We was not even try to check it out. In few months be had to stick to the bed. Everyone came to know that he was suffering from the deadliest disease.

MORAL 1: Be ready to face the negitivity. Raju would be alive till today if he all ears to the negitivity and take perticular precautions according to it.

MOTSL 2: Truth never change, even if Its negitive.
Raju was infected by the deady decease was truth, even if it is negetive. Face negetive and Turn into positive.





I can't even feagure out, By what kind of curiosity my heart getting poked ever time.

Whenever I opened my whatsapp, I want to chat with them. Engulfed with the temptation to text her but heart holding me back. What if she won't replie to my msg? Is she chating with somebody? Is it perfect time to text her? Is she interested to chat with me? She might get irritation by my msgs. All these questions arousing in my mind.

It seems like your giving more importance to someone, do they really deserve?




#dairy May 6



> Its better to build strongest one room then to build a weak 10 rooms.

> Do balance social life and personal life.

> Forget to wait for someone, Learn something in background instead.

> I was always rushing myself to learn something, but even if learn that I might be in low quality. High quality content takes time to be learnt.
For example you wanna improve your vocabulary. I try to learn all the words in one day, have you questioned yourself how much quality does it have? So Instead of learning soo many work in words in one day jus learn 7 world, then by the end of the month you could learn 7x30=210. How great it is? Even if u learn 5 words per dsy 5x30=150. How great to learn 150 new words per month.

> I was always worrying about why I was not getting proper fast replies from the people in whats app. Yeah I did.
And I came to know that every body as you, some would be chatting with their first priority, somebody would be working, somebody might have another reasons.
Is the ok to question why are you not replying me intime?
No, Remember that you don't have that authority.
Is it ok to lost someone who is pushing slow replies over you?

STOP EXPECTING RESPONSE
Just throw a reply when your free! but never expect reply. Instead do whatever things you want to do in background.
Is there no rule to respond to your every message.
Your messages should be like push and forget.

FIRST REPLY
Some people never send first reply, they might be think that their property would be decreased if they send reply first.
Ego problem?
Not interested?
No time?

EGO PROBLEM: What you lost by sending first message? Hope your never lose you bank balance.

If you still say I am shy, It means you know nothing about me.

Obsessing or ruminating are just ways to get stuck in your head

If you still say I am shy, It means you know nothing about me.

One day whether they need me or not, I need to be best.

Wait, you will get a reply on the priority wise.

That day I came online by 11o clock at the time she was also online.
She might be chatting with someone else, I was curious to text her.
But what if I would not get a reply, it might make me feel embarrassed.
I had been watching her online, a little war going in my mind whether I send a text or not. It's been 10 mins.
Finally, I put my self up and try to text her. She would not see my text.
She might be busy with that person, we get a reply as per your priority level in her life. I went off from what's the app and I am minding my own business. Suddenly, I got a reply from her saying hi. Really, I felt upset I got a reply after 10mins, even she was in online.
This incident clearly shows me How much importance I had in her life.

I wish I forget every one as if they have never existed.


Believe me or not

Believe me not, while you trying to flirting with a gril, she was being flirted by so many people. However she allocate you a certain priority and reply according to that Moreover she acts like as if she were innocent girl of the world.

So check it out how much priority you're getting. I will make this more complicated when I apply dogs example. As dogs wait for biscuits, are you waiting for their worthless texts. Your pouring ur emotions on them, sheds tear from them,

Story

There was a village named yellandu, in a school called SCHS. One innocent boy coming to the school first time. He was very nervous. At 9:00am he entered into the school, unfortunately He miss the school but and at the time he entered into school the class already been started. He started walking little faster while checking the call standard. Finally he got the class he observed that math teacher has already started teaching. His mind told him to go back but he doesn't want to go back. In the middle of the call I standed at the door and said "May I come in sir" All the class suddenly turned to him as if he were alien.

As long as you filled with the good intentions no one will harm you and never left you. So you should fill yourself with the positive thoughts and be ready for a bang.

. Firstly you need to have patience and observe the people hpw they are changing. But don't quit from their table willingly, at the moment they may be having some kind of problem to chat with you. In future they could understand how good your heart is.

. How painful is avoided by someone you like the most? Yeah, I don't know about her, Does she has a bf? Does she really has any problem to chat with me? Does she have any family problems?
Whatever it is, She shouldn't in my life any more.


#dairy

Sometimes you need to close your eyes and take a deep breath and say to yourself "Everything well be okay".

I do not know is this good move or not.
I have been added into a group called SSC-BUDDIES and it contains our class members, I love to be in that group but everyone in that seems like they were not glad I am there. I need to get some extra force to be in that group by my friend Hareesh. Is it okay be in a group that is not fit for you? People in that group married and not even care about you?
They were not willing to know what I am doing now. Moreover I am always checking for messages in that group. It is really making me sick and felt like I am not loved.

 . I know you do not want to be in that group, but my suggestion is just be there as per name purpose. You need not to give a fuck to that group and need not to check every message in that group. It provide you the proper patience to get rid of that group, u can learn how to over come this kind of

022020

As I am telling I am really wasting my valuable time talking shift of others and thinking about shit things....


Yeah, Its not the proper time to think about them, I have more time after that.

Right now I just need to focus on the subject I've failed before. I need to work harder twice the hard work I've done before...
Think this is the last opportunity to your life. If you fail again, no one can do anything.

Put your shit desires aside, stop wasting time. stop your entertainment tools... you need to get this done this time.

Sujith, Don't expect anything from anyone, just be yourself and focus on the proper goal.

In future:
Right now just you got a message from your crush saying that Hi sujith, and You continued chating for 2 to 3 hours. wasting your valuable time. You enjoyed alot happy, every nueron in your body got electrical effect by your chat. You are going on chating like that.

You aware that this is the time to practice for your exams, but you thought that If you stop chating with her you might lose her.

But listen carefully, She is not your life. Don't waste your valuable time roaming around her, never forget your purpose.

The only mistake I have done is spending money with I have saved before for another perpose.

Whatey it takes, Never take money from your savings account! I said never...
