

Pro 17

Better a dry crust with peace and quiet
    than a house full of feasting, with strife.

A prudent(wise sensible and careful) servant will rule over a disgraceful(shameful) son, and will share the inheritance(వారసత్వం) as one of the family.

The crucible for silver and the furnace for gold, but the Lord tests the heart.

A wicked person listens to deceitful lips; a liar pays attention to a destructive tongue.

Whoever mocks the poor shows contempt for their Maker;
whoever gloats over disaster will not go unpunished.
 
Children’s children are a crown to the aged,
    and parents are the pride of their children.
 
Eloquent lips are unsuited to a godless fool –
how much worse lying lips to a ruler!
 
A bribe is seen as a charm by the one who gives it;
they think success will come at every turn.
 
Whoever would foster love covers over an offence,
but whoever repeats the matter separates close friends.

A rebuke impresses a discerning person more than a hundred lashes a fool.

Evildoers foster rebellion against God; the messenger of death will be sent against them.

12
Better to meet a bear robbed of her cubs
    than a fool bent on folly.

13
Evil will never leave the house
    of one who pays back evil for good.

14
Starting a quarrel is like breaching a dam;
    so drop the matter before a dispute breaks out.

15
Acquitting the guilty and condemning the innocent –
    the Lord detests them both.

16
Why should fools have money in hand to buy wisdom,
    when they are not able to understand it?

17
A friend loves at all times,
    and a brother is born for a time of adversity.

18
One who has no sense shakes hands in pledge
    and puts up security for a neighbour.

19
Whoever loves a quarrel loves sin;
    whoever builds a high gate invites destruction.

20
One whose heart is corrupt does not prosper;
    one whose tongue is perverse falls into trouble.

21
To have a fool for a child brings grief;
    there is no joy for the parent of a godless fool.

22
A cheerful heart is good medicine,
    but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.

23
The wicked accept bribes(make illegal payments to in exchange for favors or influence) in secret to pervert the course of justice.

24
A discerning person keeps wisdom in view,
    but a fool’s eyes wander to the ends of the earth.

25
A foolish son brings grief(pain / regret / trouble / worry / distress / woe / mourning / misery) to his father
    and bitterness to the mother who bore him.

26
If imposing a fine on the innocent is not good,
    surely to flog honest officials is not right.

27
The one who has knowledge uses words with restraint,
    and whoever has understanding is even-tempered.

28
Even fools are thought wise if they keep silent,
    and discerning if they hold their tongues.

Pro 16

All a person’s ways seem pure to them,
    but motives are weighed by the Lord.

Commit to the Lord whatever you do,
    and he will establish your plans.

Through love and faithfulness sin is atoned for;
 through the fear of the Lord evil is avoided.

Better a little with righteousness than much gain with injustice.

The lips of a king speak as an oracle,
    and his mouth does not betray justice.

A king’s wrath is a messenger of death,
    but the wise will appease it.

Pride goes before destruction,
    a haughty spirit before a fall.

Better to be lowly in spirit along with the oppressed
    than to share plunder with the proud.

The wise in heart are called discerning,
    and gracious words promote instruction.

Prudence is a fountain of life to the prudent,
    but folly brings punishment to fools.

The hearts of the wise make their mouths prudent,
    and their lips promote instruction.

Gracious words are a honeycomb,
    sweet to the soul and healing to the bones.

The appetite of labourers works for them;
    their hunger drives them on.

A scoundrel plots evil,
    and on their lips it is like a scorching fire.

A perverse person stirs up conflict,
    and a gossip separates close friends.

A violent person entices their neighbour.

Whoever winks with their eye is plotting perversity;
whoever purses their lips is bent on evil.

Grey hair is a crown of splendour;
    it is attained in the way of righteousness.

Better a patient person than a warrior,
    one with self-control than one who takes a city.

The lot is cast into the lap,
    but its every decision is from the Lord.


Pro 15


A gentle answer turns away wrath,
    but a harsh word stirs up anger.

The tongue of the wise adorns knowledge,
    but the mouth of the fool gushes folly.

The soothing tongue is a tree of life,
    but a perverse tongue crushes the spirit.

A fool spurns a parent’s discipline,
    but whoever heeds correction shows prudence.

the income of the wicked brings ruin.

The Lord detests the way of the wicked,
    but he loves those who pursue righteousness.

Stern discipline awaits anyone who leaves the path;

Mockers resent correction, so they avoid the wise.

The discerning heart seeks knowledge,
    but the mouth of a fool feeds on folly.

All the days of the oppressed are wretched,
    but the cheerful heart has a continual feast.

Better a little with the fear of the Lord
    than great wealth with turmoil.

Better a dish of vegetables with love
    than a fattened calf with hatred.

A hot-tempered person stirs up conflict,
    but the one who is patient calms a quarrel.

The way of the sluggard is blocked with thorns,
    but the path of the upright is a highway.

Plans fail for lack of counsel.

The path of life leads upward for the prudent
    to keep them from going down to the realm of the dead.

The greedy bring ruin to their households,
    but the one who hates bribes will live.

The heart of the righteous weighs its answers,
    but the mouth of the wicked gushes evil.

Those who disregard discipline despise themselves,
    but the one who heeds correction gains understanding.

Wisdom’s instruction is to fear the Lord,
    and humility comes before honour.

Pro 14

who despise Him are devious in their ways.

A fool’s mouth lashes out with pride.

Where there are no oxen, the manger is empty,
    but from the strength of an ox come abundant harvests.

a false witness pours out lies.

The mocker seeks wisdom and finds none,
    but knowledge comes easily to the discerning.

Stay away from a fool, for you will not find knowledge on their lips.


the folly of fools is to give deception.

Fools mock at making amends for sin

the tent of the upright will flourish.

Even in laughter the heart may ache,
    and rejoicing may end in grief.

The wise fear the Lord and shun evil,
    but a fool is hotheaded and yet feels secure.

the one who devises evil schemes is hated.

The poor are shunned even by their neighbours,
    but the rich have many friends.

Do not those who plot evil go astray?

the folly of fools yields folly.

Whoever fears the Lord has a secure fortress,
    and for their children it will be a refuge, turning a person from the snares of death, a fountain of life.

Envy rots the bones.

Whoever oppresses the poor shows contempt for their Maker.

When calamity comes, the wicked are brought down.

Wisdom reposes in the heart of the discerning
    and even among fools she lets herself be known.

Righteousness exalts a nation,
    but sin condemns any people.

A king delights in a wise servant,
    but a shameful servant arouses his fury.

Pro 7

Warning against the adulterous woman.

My son, keep my words
    and store up my commands within you.
They will keep you from the adulterous woman,
    from the wayward woman with her seductive words.

 I looked down through the lattice. at twilight, as the day was fading, as the dark of night set in.

Then out came a woman to meet him,
    dressed like a prostitute and with crafty intent.
craft: an activity involving a special skill at making things with your hands.
Crafty: clever at getting what you want, especially by indirect or dishonest methods.
SYNONYM cunning, wily
He's a crafty old devil.
one of the party’s craftiest political strategists
There are times when the only way to win is by a crafty reinterpretation of the rules.
That was a crafty move/touch.

(She is unruly and defiant,
    her feet never stay at home;

now in the street, now in the squares,
    at every corner she lurks.)

She took hold of him and kissed him
    and with a brazen face she said:
I have covered my bed
    with coloured linens from Egypt.
I have perfumed my bed
    with myrrh, aloes and cinnamon.

With persuasive words she led him astray;
    she seduced him with her smooth talk.

All at once he followed her
    like an ox going to the slaughter,
like a deer[a] stepping into a noose[b]

    till an arrow pierces his liver,
like a bird darting into a snare,
    little knowing it will cost him his life.


Do not let your heart turn to her ways or stray into her paths.

Many are the victims she has brought down;
    her slain are a mighty throng.

Her house is a highway to the grave,
    leading down to the chambers of death.

















Pro 13

A wise son heeds his father’s instruction,
    but a mocker does not respond to rebukes.

the unfaithful have an appetite for violence.

Those who guard their lips preserve their lives,
    but those who speak rashly will come to ruin.

the poor cannot respond to threatening rebukes.

The lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.

Dishonest money dwindles away.

Hope deferred makes the heart sick,
    but a longing fulfilled is a tree of life.

Whoever scorns instruction will pay for it.

All who are prudent act with knowledge,
    but fools expose their folly.

A wicked messenger falls into trouble,
    but a trustworthy envoy brings healing.

Whoever disregards discipline comes to poverty and shame,
    but whoever heeds correction is honoured.

A longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul,
    but fools detest turning from evil.

Walk with the wise and become wise,
    for a companion of fools suffers harm.

Trouble pursues the sinner.

An unploughed field produces food for the poor,
    but injustice sweeps it away.

Whoever spares the rod hates their children.

The righteous eat to their hearts’ content.




















Pro 12

He condemns those who devise wicked schemes.

A disgraceful wife is like decay in his bones.

The advice of the wicked is deceitful.

Speech of the upright rescues them.

The wicked are overthrown and are no more.

A person is praised according to their prudence,
    and one with a warped mind is despised.


9. Better to be a nobody and yet have a servant
    than pretend to be somebody and have no food.
10. The kindest acts of the wicked are cruel.

Those who work their land will have abundant food,
    but those who chase fantasies have no sense.

The wicked desire the stronghold of evildoers,
    but the root of the righteous endures.

Fools show their annoyance at once,
    but the prudent overlook an insult.

The words of the reckless pierce like swords.

Deceit is in the hearts of those who plot evil.

The prudent keep their knowledge to themselves,
    but a fool’s heart blurts out folly.

Diligent hands will rule,
    but laziness ends in forced labour.

Anxiety weighs down the heart,
    but a kind word cheers it up.

The lazy do not roast any game,
    but the diligent feed on the riches of the hunt.

In the way of righteousness there is life;
    along that path is immortality











Pro 11

The Lord detests dishonest scales,
    but accurate weights find favour with him.

When pride comes, then comes disgrace,
    but with humility comes wisdom.

The integrity of the upright guides them,
    but the unfaithful are destroyed by their duplicity.

Wealth is worthless in the day of wrath.

The righteousness of the upright delivers them,
    but the unfaithful are trapped by evil desires.

Hopes placed in mortals die with them.

When the righteous prosper, the city rejoices;
    when the wicked perish, there are shouts of joy.

Through the blessing of the upright, a city is exalted.

Whoever derides their neighbour has no sense.

A gossip betrays a confidence, but a trustworthy person keeps a secret.

For lack of guidance a nation falls, but victory is won through many advisors.

Whoever puts up security for a stranger will surely suffer,
    but whoever refuses to shake hands in pledge is safe.

Ruthless men gain only wealth.

 The cruel bring ruin on themselves.

A wicked person earns deceptive wages,
    but the one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.

Truly the righteous attain life,
    but whoever pursues evil finds death.

 The wicked will not go unpunished.

Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout
    is a beautiful woman who shows no discretion.

One person gives freely, yet gains even more;
    another withholds unduly, but comes to poverty.

A generous person will prosper;

People curse the one who hoards grain;

The righteous will thrive like a green leaf.

Pro 10

A foolish son brings grief to his mother.

Ill-gotten treasures have no lasting value,
    but righteousness delivers from death.

He thwarts the craving of the wicked.

Lazy hands make for poverty

He who gathers crops in summer is a prudent son,
    but he who sleeps during harvest is a disgraceful son.

Blessings crown the head of the righteous,
    but violence overwhelms the mouth of the wicked.

The name of the wicked will rot.

Whoever walks in integrity walks securely,
    but whoever takes crooked paths will be found out.

Whoever winks maliciously causes grief,
    and a chattering fool comes to ruin.

The mouth of the wicked conceals violence.

Hatred stirs up conflict, but love covers over all wrongs.

Wisdom is found on the lips of the discerning,
    but a rod is for the back of one who has no sense.

The mouth of a fool invites ruin.

The wealth of the rich is their fortified city.

The wages of the righteous is life,
    but the earnings of the wicked are sin and death.

Whoever heeds discipline shows the way to life,
    but whoever ignores correction leads others astray.

Whoever heeds discipline shows the way to life,
    but whoever ignores correction leads others astray.

Sin is not ended by multiplying words,
    but the prudent hold their tongues.

The lips of the righteous nourish many.

The blessing of the Lord brings wealth,
    without painful toil for it.

A fool finds pleasure in wicked schemes.

When the storm has swept by, the wicked are gone,
    but the righteous stand firm for ever.

As vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes,
    so are sluggards to those who send them.

The prospect of the righteous is joy.

The way of the Lord is a refuge for the blameless.

From the mouth of the righteous comes the fruit of wisdom,
    but a perverse tongue will be silenced.

Pro 9

Whoever corrects a mocker invites insults;
    whoever rebukes the wicked incurs abuse.

Do not rebuke mockers or they will hate you;
    rebuke the wise and they will love you.

Folly is an unruly woman;
    she is simple and knows nothing.

But little do they know that the dead are there,
    that her guests are deep in the realm of the dead.

Pro 8

I raise my voice to all humanity.

You who are simple, gain prudence;

My lips detest wickedness.
దుష్టత్వము నా పెదవులకు అసహ్యము

All the words of my mouth are just; none of them is crooked or perverse.
నా నోటి మాటలన్నియు నీతిగలవి వాటిలో మూర్ఖతయైనను కుటిలతయైనను లేదు

To the discerning all of them are right;
    they are upright to those who have found knowledge.
అవియన్నియు వివేకికి తేటగాను తెలివినొందినవారికి యథార్థముగాను ఉన్నవి.

‘I, wisdom, dwell together with prudence;
    I possess knowledge and discretion.

 I hate pride and arrogance,
    evil behaviour and perverse speech.
గర్వము అహంకారము దుర్మార్గత కుటిలమైన మాటలు నాకు అసహ్యములు.


Counsel and sound judgment are mine;

By me kings reign and rulers issue decrees that are just;

by me princes govern,
    and nobles – all who rule on earth.

With me are riches and honour,
    enduring wealth and prosperity.

My fruit is better than fine gold;
    what I yield surpasses choice silver.

    along the paths of justice,
bestowing a rich inheritance on those who love me
    and making their treasuries full.

I was constantly[e] at his side.
I was filled with delight day after day

rejoicing in his whole world
    and delighting in the human race.

Listen to my instruction and be wise;
    do not disregard it.
#Bible

Chapter 3

When she open her book she found a letter written "I love u". As soon as she saw that latter she becomes upset, thinking in her mind "Why theses all boys act up like this? Senseless thinkers" she got angry. She kept that letter in that book itself and hid it inside the bag.

Max came to class as if nothing has happened. Jade look at him with a very low look as if he was the most wanted criminal. Max said Hi, she turned her face side. Max wondered why she was acting up like this.

Max can't tolerate her devastivative looks. Went straight to her..

"Hellow Jade, I am really sorry. I forgot to give notes back to you at time. Please stop looking at me as if I'm a theaf."
"Its not for notes issue"
"What it is for?"
"Don't ack too smart, ok"
"Am I? Your overreacting!"
"Stupid"
"See miss, Whats your problem?"
"You know what I am talking about, but I warn you If u do it again consequences would he more crual."
"Your crazy!"
"Get lost" and she walked away from him.
I walk in the way of righteousness,