Hello I'm Emma from mmmEnglish!

This video is perfect for intermediate to advanced

English learners who want to improve their skills

in English conversations.

So I'm gonna share the exact phrases and expressions

that you need to do things in English conversations

like when you want to interrupt someone

or you want to change the topic.

Maybe when you need to end a conversation

and lots of others as well.

In fact, I'm sharing fifty useful phrases that will help you

in English conversations, all useful expressions

that you need to improve your speaking skills

and to help you maintain conversations for longer.

So I hope you're ready. Let's get into it!

Now a lot can happen during a conversation.

Talking about the topic is one important part

but to speak fluently and to speak with ease,

you need to have a range of conversation tools

up your sleeve because there are lots

of other shifts and changes that happen

during a conversation

depending on who you're talking to,

what's going on around you and

whether or not you're interested or not.

Right now we're going to focus on the tools

that you need to move around

in your conversations easily and naturally.

Alright and if you make it through to the very end of this

video, I'm gonna share some advanced expressions

to help you talk about controversial topics

to help you express your ideas when you know

that not everyone's gonna agree with you

right and you want to prepare them for that.

Now if that sounds a little too intense for you

and maybe you want to start by focusing on

simpler conversation strategies about

just starting a conversation with someone,

then I recommend that you first watch

this lesson up here.

So conversations are always two ways, right?

That's what makes a conversation.

So as you give your opinion or you share something,

it's always nice to invite the other person's opinion right?

And this is a really important strategy to help you

extend your conversations,

asking for other people's opinions.

So what do you say when you're asking for other

people's opinions?

Well quite simply, you could ask "Do you agree?"

Very basic. It's quite closed that question, so what about

if you opened up that question

to get a more interesting answer?

What do you think about that?

What's your opinion?

Or how do you feel about it?

If you want to make it a little more polite, you might say.

I'd like to hear your thoughts on that.

Or I'm interested to hear your opinion about this.

And more formally,

maybe if you were at a meeting at work,

you know you might ask

"Would you like to add anything?"

And this is just, you know, a nice sort of

polite way of inviting other people into the conversation

to share their opinion.

So what about what to say when you want to interrupt?

When someone else is talking

and you want to interrupt them,

well there are definitely ways to do it rudely

but of course, there are many ways to do it

politely as well. Sometimes you have to

interrupt in conversations.

So of course, you could say "Sorry"

"Excuse me" is a little more polite

and then you can actually lead straight on

with your different idea or your opinion there.

Sorry I thought our meeting was on Thursday next week

not Wednesday.

You know it's just a little brief interjection

to help you share a different opinion

or a different thought.

Now you can informally interrupt someone to

add an idea to a conversation by saying

"Do you mind if I add to that?" or

"Can I jump in here?"

and that literally means can I jump into the conversation

right now at this point. I've got something to share.

I want to say it.

Now there are some more polite ways to express this

as well. You might say

"Sorry to interrupt but I've got something to say"

Or "Sorry for interrupting"

Now there's not a lot of difference between those two.

I would just say that

"Sorry to interrupt"

is probably used more when you're speaking directly

to the person that you're interrupting

and then maybe if you're stepping into a room full of

people talking, a meeting room or something like that,

then you might say

"Sorry for interrupting,

I just needed to share something with you."

Now to go even more formal than that, perhaps if you're

working in a hotel and you need to interrupt a customer,

you might say

"Sorry, may I interrupt you for just a moment?"

Or "If I may interrupt you for a minute,

I'd like to share something with you"

Oh actually, if you don't mind me interrupting

for a moment, I'd love to tell you a little bit about

The Ladies' Project.

If you're a woman wanting to develop the confident

English speaking version of yourself

that's just as expressive, as intelligent and

interesting as you are in your own language,

then you should definitely check out The Ladies' Project.

It's a lively online community

that helps women around the world

to meet and practise speaking English together.

We have real conversations about the things in life

that are most important. We can help you to quickly

find reliable speaking partners, offer you guidance

from native teachers, build your conversation skills

and overcome your fears and your frustrations

about speaking English fluently.

So if you want to keep improving your English

conversation skills or maybe you're looking for a way to

maintain the skills that you've already developed,

then I hope you'll come and check it out.

We're accepting new members right now but only

for another week.

So to find out more

click the link in the description below.

Okay. Where was I?

That was a good example of what to say

when you've gone off topic.

If you go off topic, it means that you started

talking about something, so for example apples,

but while you were talking you started

to talk about something else, you know, maybe you got

distracted or you got excited and went off

telling a different story.

Or even the other person that you're talking to

has gone off topic and you're thinking

"How on earth did we end up talking about potatoes?"

You've got to get your conversation back on track right?

And it really is just that simple shift in the conversation.

So here's how to do it.

So anyway, getting back to my story..

As I was saying...

Where was I?

Ah yes...

You can also combine

some of these expressions together.

So anyway, where were we?

Ah yes... You were talking about apples!

What to say when you think you understood

but you need to double-check.

These are really important expressions to learn,

to help you as you're listening

so that you can feel more confident about your answers,

you know, when you're answering someone else's

question, this is just a little check

to make sure you're answering it accurately.

So if you didn't quite hear perfectly, you could say

"So what you're asking is..."

and then repeat back what you heard.

So, what you want to know is...

and then repeat.

Do you mean?

And then paraphrase what you heard

or you could say

"In other words, what you're saying is..."

and this is a really natural part of conversation.

Native speakers are not gonna care if you ask them

to confirm what they said because it just makes it

much easier to continue the conversation, right?

If you're working in customer service, maybe at a hotel

or at a restaurant or something like that

then using the verb 'confirm' is a little more

formal. You might say

"I'd like to confirm what you said"

or "Excuse me, can I just confirm that/what you said"

Naturally, we agree and we disagree with people

all of the time right and there are so many

different ways to do this in English.

Agreeing is pretty simple right, you can just say

"Yes! Absolutely!"

to say that you agree.

I completely agree with you!

And we have this really fantastic expression which is

"I couldn't agree more"

I couldn't possibly agree more.

I really strongly agree with you.

But what to say to somewhat disagree?

Now all of these examples are ways to say that you

accept some of the ideas that the other person

has shared but you don't completely agree with them.

Okay so you might say

"I see what you mean but..."

and then express, you know, a different opinion.

I understand your point of view but...

I can see where you're coming from but...

I agree with you up to a point, however...

I've got a different opinion.

So then what to say when you disagree completely?

I don't feel the same way.

Actually, I don't quite agree or I disagree.

I'm afraid I don't agree with you on that

or about that.

Now this is quite an interesting English expression.

"I'm afraid"

We use it when we're trying to make a statement

more polite not just to say that we're worried

or we're scared.

I'm afraid I can't help you.

I'm afraid we've run out of sausages.

So it's just a way of making those statements

a little more polite and you can do the same thing

when you're disagreeing.

I'm afraid I don't agree with you.

So to be quite formal when you disagree,

then try to add a word like 'respectfully'

Respectfully, I have to disagree.

And then if you feel like your conversation isn't

going anywhere maybe there's a bit of tension,

people are getting frustrated and annoyed

and you want to change the topic.

Well, we'll have to agree to disagree then.

It's a way to end the discussion,

especially when it's getting a little heated

and change the topic a little.

Now of course in English, you can be quite rude

with your body language when you're disagreeing

with someone.

So in formal situations or when you want to be

really polite, try to be aware of what your body is doing.

So avoid shaking your head or

rolling your eyes or sighing.

You know? Unless you really want that other person

to see that you're frustrated or you're annoyed with them

Speaking of changing the topic,

what do you say when you want to do that in English?

What to say to change the topic?

Now this is useful.

You might want to change the topic for a few different

reasons. It could be as simple as

you've run out of things to say about the topic.

So instead of ending the conversation,

you can simply change the topic and change direction.

That reminds me...

Or speaking about or speaking of that...

You know this is a really useful expression or a way of

you know kind of linking two ideas in a conversation.

Speaking about your holiday to Greece,

did I tell you that I've got a trip

planned later in the year?

But maybe you just want to introduce something

completely different.

So then you could try

"Oh, by the way, did I tell you about this?"

Or "Oh, while I remember..."

Or "Before I forget

I've got something I want to say."

This has nothing to do with what we're talking about but

I've got to share it anyway.

I know this is completely changing the topic

but I've got to tell you.

So what to say when you're talking about

a controversial topic?

Now this is more advanced conversation skills

but maybe you want to talk about politics,

religion, social issues. I quite enjoy learning about

these topics and having discussions about these things

but I know that my views will not always be the same

as everyone else's.

But that doesn't mean that you need to avoid it, right?

You just need a few tools and a few tips

to help you keep the conversation open and positive

So when you're introducing an idea that you feel like not

everyone's going to agree with

then you could try saying

"I know not everyone agrees with me"

but this is what I think.

Or I know this is a contentious issue.

Contentious.

And then go in to explain.

It might be an unpopular opinion

but I strongly believe...

I don't see eye to eye with everyone on this matter,

but I think it's really important to discuss this.

Whilst you may not agree with my views,

I'm definitely interested in hearing yours.

I'm not trying to ruffle anyone's feathers here.

This is a fun little idiom to say I'm not trying

to make anyone upset or angry,

you know, I'm just sharing a different opinion.

I'm not intending to ruffle anyone's feathers.

What to say when you want to end a conversation?

So having one of these simple expressions on hand will

help you to politely end a conversation and move on.

Right we don't want to get stuck in a conversation.

Well, I'd best be off! It's been great chatting.

Anyway, I'd better get back to it.

Or

I better get back to work.

I'm so glad I ran into you. It's been great catching up.

I'll see you soon.

So there you have it!

That was over fifty common phrases to help you

have more advanced English conversations

and help you to maintain those conversations

even longer.

Now all of these tools are ones that native English

speakers use all the time in conversations.

So listen out for them in movies and podcasts.

Try to hear them in context.

Now definitely don't try and learn all of them at once,

okay not all fifty phrases at once

but definitely choose a couple of them from each

category and really start to get familiar with them

and how to use them.

You guys know that you can catch me

over on Instagram and on Facebook

and make sure you take a look at

The Ladies' Project too, I've linked to it up here.

You can catch The Ladies' Project on Instagram as well

and as always you can keep practising

with me right now

right there in that lesson.

