Try even if you fail.
---------------------

	Even 1000km Journey also starts with just the one step. When we keep thinking about how long it is, how to reach there. We can't reach there.
	So All we have to do it to take the charge and try undertaken the initiative first step and keep moving forword.
	
	Likewise If we keep thinking about to learn certain things, we might be end up thiking only. Just stand up try to do something towards the victory over it.
	Learn a bit of it today, try to learn a bit more tomorry. Go slowy and steadly. Don't stop and think about it. Just keep moving. It is not about how fast you're moving but how you moving.
	At first you may find it quite dificult. But rember this Even the Greatest professionals also just learner at the beginers. It is not possible to skip the Learning phase. No one can escape the Leaning phase,
	Even the Words boxing champian was a beginer at the start.
	
Learn a Bit:
	A Bit reference to the single memory block and a tiny memory attribute. It is not even consider when we talk about huge memory. 8 bit of collected together and became a Byte. Byte became KiloByte, then to MegaBytes, Giga bytes, TeraBytes, go on.
	As we see even if you want to have a GigaByte memory you have to start with the first Bit.
	
	Can't you learn bunch of data? Don't you have for it?
	Just learn a portion of the course. Eveyday continue to learn portion of course. You eventually became the Professional in that.

First leaf of neem is extreamly bitter:
	Have you ever tasted neam leaf? It is bitter, isn't it?
	Try to eat a leaf daily. Put that in daily basis.
	Whatever you have felt as bitter evantually turns into sweet without your own knowledge.
	In the end you yourself admit that how sweet it is.
	
	In same senario,
	Your practiced article would be bitter/bad.
	Your early writtned song wouldn't be great.
	Your first Project would be so basis.
	Your intial job interview becomes a mess.
	
	At early stages/levels whatever you do is makes you feel like a looser and compelling you to put down you pen. When you show it to others, they might found bunch of mistakes in it.
	They might belittle you and tell you to stop wasting your time.
	
	Be strong, we are in this earth to evolve day by day.


What you want to learn?
	Write down certain produtive habits that can improve your learning and avail the knowledge to you.
	1. Write the articles.
	2. Learn Public speach.
	3. Communication skills.
	4. Body language tricks.
	
DID YOU LEARN ANYTHING NEW TODAY?
