How to write a Bible notes?

You have to learn how to write a proper bible notes. That can be useful for you to revision whenever you want.
1. Write down the Names of the persons and cities involved.
2. Break down the chapter as parts. Give a simple name to each sector.
3. Write down the important dialogs.
4. Try to find a saying suitable for the situation.

For instance take Luke 7th Chapter.
Luke 7th chapter can be divided into 4 sections.

1. Jesus Heals a Centurion's Servant
2. Jesus Raises a Widow's Son
3. Messengers from John the Baptist
4. Jesus about John the Baptist
5. A Sinful Woman Forgiven


>> 1. Jesus Heals a Centurion's Servant
Location: Capernaum
People: Centurion, Jesus

Centurion's friends in behalf of centurion: Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof. Therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word, and let my servant be healed.

Jesus marveled at him, and turning to the crowd that followed him, said,
"I tell you, not even in Israel have I found such faith."

>> 2. Jesus Raises a Widow's Son
Location: Nain
the only son of his mother, and she was a widow.
he had compassion on her and said to her, "Do not weep."
Then he came up and touched the bier, and the bearers stood still. And he said, "Young man, I say to you, arise." And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.

>> 3. Messengers from John the Baptist

"Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another?"

 In that hour he healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many who were blind he bestowed sight.
 
 And he answered them, “Go and tell John what you have seen and heard:
 
 1. the blind receive their sight
 2.	the lame walk
 3.	lepers[e] are cleansed
 4.	the deaf hear
 5.	the dead are raised up
 6.	the poor have good news preached to them.
 
 And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.
 
 >> 4.	Jesus about John the baptised
 I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John.
 Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
 
 For John the Baptist has come eating no bread and drinking no wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’
 The Son of Man has come eating and drinking, and you say, ‘Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’ 35 Yet wisdom is justified by all her children.”
 
 >> 5. Jesus Anointed by a Sinful Woman
 Location: Simon the Pharisee's home.
 People: Sinful Woman, Jesus, Simon, 
 Things: Alabaster flask of ointment
 
 She began to
 1.	wet his feet with her tears
 2.	wiped them with the hair of her head
 3.	kissed his feet
 4. anointed them with the ointment.
 
 Jesus:
	A certain moneylender had two debtors.
	One owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
	When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both.
	Now which of them will love him more?
 
 Simon:
	The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt.

 Jesus:
	You have judged rightly.
	Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven—for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.
	
 Jesus to Woman:
	Your sins are forgiven.
	Your faith has saved you; go in peace.