decisive adjective
 /d??sa?s?v/
Very important for the final result of a particular situation.
a decisive factor/victory/battle
Climate was a decisive factor in establishing where the tournament should be held.
She has played a decisive role in the peace negotiations.
a decisive step (= an important action that will change a situation) towards a cleaner environment.







life is loud chaotic  and distracting it's filled to the brim with   demanding mental and physical challenges you're  swept up in a tidal wave of stress but successful   people separate themselves from the noise and  chaos.

successful people understand the power  

of silence so here are seven ways that silence 
can change your life for the better   

1. THOUGHTFUL SILENCE

A moment of silence is a moment  of thoughts well let's say your co-worker asks   you for a favor. They want you to drive all the way  across town and deliver some documents they forgot   to send. When confronted with this question you may  have a knee-jerk reaction and without thinking you   might say sure no problem. But 10 seconds later you  realize it is a problem. Suddenly you're pressed   for time and overwhelmed by stress all because you  answered without thinking. A few seconds of silence can spare you from these stressful scenarios . Instead of answering right away what if you took   a moment to think about your schedule. You remember  how much work you already have you tell your   co-worker that you're too busy so they ask someone  else instead. And just like that a brief period of   silence keeps your priorities straight and your  schedule clean. That's why successful people pause   whenever they need to. They view silence as an  opportunity to consider their options because   every decision is worth a few moments the thought.   now of course not everyone can silently analyze   their problems. You may feel so awkward that  you can barely think straight. Before you're   able to use these pauses constructively you have  to overcome your fear of silence. That's why many   of the wealthiest and most influential people  in the world are also the quietest.

2. PERSEVERING INTEGRITY

A brief pause does more than  simply give you time to think. When you pause for a   second a minutes or an hour your decision becomes  more careful and more decisive. Instead of doubting   and second-guessing yourself you know that you did  your due diligence you weighed the pros and cons.    and you double-checked your schedule now with all  your boxes checked you can move forward unimpeded.    whether you answer yes or no your decision is  now clear and firm. As you become more decisive   you'll notice a change in the way people treat  you. They'll start respecting your decisions and   valuing. Your choices why is that well because  decisive people mean what they say for example.    they consistently fulfill their promises so  instead of saying yes to everything. They only   say yes to the commitments. They intend to keep  people will respect you more because they trust   you more. When people trust you to follow through  your word carries more weight that newfound sense   of dependability works wonders in any relationship  personal or professional your friends and partners   will genuinely believe in the promises you make.   your bosses and co-workers will have faith in your   ability to succeed something as simple as silence  can strengthen your relationships and earn you   the respect you deserve.


3. DIRECT AND CONCISE

 talking a lot and saying alot mean very  

different things. have you met someone who rambles 
for 15 minutes without really saying anything many  

people feel compelled to talk constantly silence 
makes them nervous so they fill every blank space  

with gibberish and small talk. the problem is 
when they're constantly talking they're rarely  

thinking they say very little even if their word 
count flies through the roof some people talk  

too much and say too much have you ever heard 
the term fast talker a fast talker is someone  

who tries to trick you by burying you under a 
mountain of ideas and incentives by the end you  

barely understand what's going on often times they 
do this on purpose to push their agenda salesmen  

for example confuse customers with a flood of 
information many people imitate fast talkers by  

accident they talk and they talk because they 
don't know when enough is enough they don't  

realize how little sense they're making successful 
people on the other hand talk a little but say  

a lot in other words they're always direct and 
they're always concise when a successful person  

needs something they present their needs in a way 
that's simple and easy understand they don't dance  

around the point they don't hide their agenda 
under a flood of extraneous ideas they say what  

they need to say then they stop this is one big 
reason why successful people seem quiet they're  

experts at shaving their needs down to the bare 
essentials if two ideas can be explained with  

one idea they always go short and sweet number 
4 psychological liberation silence isn't just a  

tool for professional success it's also a powerful 
source of mental clarity by growing accustomed to  

silence you can provide your mind with a space 
to think and feel freely our daily routines are  

packed with crowds of stimuli from traffic jams 
on the freeway to densely packed spreadsheets  

your brain is exposed to an incredible volume of 
information every day it's challenging to remove  

yourself even for a moment from the downpour of 
distractors in your life but as you discover the  

power of Silas you'll find a rare opportunity to 
set your mind free you can liberate your thoughts  

from the shackles of your daily life instead 
of worrying about unanswered emails you can use  

these periods of silence to enjoy the present 
moment this is one way that successful people  

balance their demanding life styles with such an 
extraordinary amount of pressure on your shoulders  

it's easy to crumble to lose control and fall into 
a downward spiral but moments of silence keep your  

stress at bay each time you feel the pressures 
of your lifestyle creeping in just take a brief  

moment to yourself just tune out the world remind 
yourself about the things that really matter your  

goals your passions and your loved ones remind 
yourself where you started and how far you've  

come tell yourself that it's okay to make mistakes 
that failure is natural gradually these moments  

will melt away your stress returning to your work 
with a clear head and a positive attitude you can  

fill your day with as much silence as you need 
some successful people enjoy moments of silence  

every couple of hours others set aside a longer 
period of time to completely relax their minds  

according to a 2016 study in annals of the New 
York Academy of Sciences achieving a state of  

wakeful relaxation requires just three simple 
things find somewhere comfortable to sits free  

yourself from distractions like your computer 
and your phone and gently close your eyes the  

first few times your mind will be restless packed 
with leftover stress and anxiety researchers call  

this jumble of thoughts and feelings monkey mind 
because your brain swings from one idea to the  

next but over time you'll get more comfortable 
in silence you'll learn to soothe your nerves  

unravel your stress and liberate your Restless 
mind number five enhanced concentration not  

only does silence help you relax it fine Tunes 
many of your most productive traits well take  

concentration for example your ability to focus 
on a single goal is critical for any project few  

characteristics are as productive or valuable 
as razor-sharp concentration mindful silence has  

helped countless successful people to grow their 
concentration and it can help you too as it stands  

not many people can sit in silence without getting 
restless or bored their itching to pick up their  

phones open their computers or do something active 
as strange as it sounds doing nothing is a real  

challenge but it's a challenge worth tackling 
a 2012 study from the Journal of Neuroscience  

found that practiced meditators people who sit 
in silence on a regular basis had many cognitive  

advantages over people who never meditated the 
largest discrepancies revolved around attention  

for experienced meditators the areas of the brain 
responsible for attention were much more stable  

because of that stability meditators can rein in 
distracting thoughts faster than most people in  

other words by sitting in silence you teach 
yourself to tune out distractions from your  

environments and from yourself you learn how 
to keep your mind focused and lengthen your  

attention span so you can focus longer and harder 
than ever before sitting in silence may not look  

like much on the outside but its impact on 
your brain is nothing short of incredible  

number six inner wisdom as you become more 
comfortable in silence you may notice a change  

inside yourself suddenly you can hear your inner 
monologue more than ever before your thoughts were  

jumbled indecisive and confusing you struggle 
to make decisions and think through problems on  

your own but as you spend more time inside your 
mind your thoughts become richer and louder you  

overcome nervous hurdles you discover what you 
want in life and you give your inner monologue  

the opportunity to speak for itself now at 
this stage you may be surprised by how much  

wisdom you have to offer normally you're 
so overwhelmed by doubt and fear that you  

ignore your own instincts you tune out your gut 
feelings you invalidate the lessons you learn  

and the wisdom you have to offer successful 
people use moments of silence to nurture that  

voice inside them they trust their instincts and 
value their own opinions but that takes time and  

practice right now your head is so noisy that 
you can't hear your own voice but as you grow  

more and more comfortable in silence you'll 
hear your wisdom loud and clear hey thank you  

for watching Top think and be sure to subscribe 
because more incredible content is on the way

