Learn these in Aug 15-17.
---------------------------

Avail(v): to use the offer.
eligibility (adj): Eligible or having authority.
Revise(v): Check again.
purposes: the intention, aim.

prevail: to be accepted, especially after a struggle or an argument.
these Offer Terms will prevail, only for the purposes of this Offer.
Justice will prevail over tyranny.
Fortunately, common sense prevailed.

revoked x extended :
revoked: to officially cancel something so that it is no longer legally acceptable.

prior
happening or existing before something else or before a particular time
Although not essential, some prior knowledge of statistics is desirable.
This information must not be disclosed without prior written consent.
Visits are by prior arrangement.
Please give us prior notice if you need an evening meal.
She will be unable to attend because of a prior engagement.


liability: the state of being legally responsible for something
The company cannot accept liability for any damage caused by natural disasters.
The defendant admitted liability to compensate the claimant.
The company has liabilities to its employees.
last, whichever is earlier ("Offer Period"), unless revoked or extended by Amazon (in its sole discretion), without any prior notice and without any liability.




entitled to: rights to have
will be entitled to receive instant discount of up-to Rs. 1,500

equated monthly instalments (EMI)

deem Verb:


convey as a conviction or view:
conviction: a strong opinion or belief.
strong political/moral convictions
She was motivated by deep religious conviction.
 conviction that… We were sustained by the conviction that all would be well in the end.
 
 
withdraw:
In such a scenario:
refund:
Delinquent: a person who has failed to pay money that is owed.


Instant discount:
reserve the right:
fraudulent activity:
purchase value: cost
partial payments: 
Minimum transaction value: 

deem: to have a particular opinion about somebody/something
SYNONYM consider.
Any person availing this Offer will be deemed to have accepted these Offer Terms.

The evening was deemed a great success.
 deem somebody/something + adj. She deemed it prudent not to say anything.
I deem it an honour to be invited.
They would take any action deemed necessary.
deem somebody/something to be something
The strike was deemed to be illegal.
deem (that)…
Inspectors deemed that the standard of teaching was unsatisfactory.

Delinquent: Credit card delinquency occurs when a cardholder falls behind on making required monthly payments.

over-limit: Being over-limit, or overlimit, refers to a cardholder account that has surpassed its credit limit with a transaction. When cardholders attempt to make purchases that will put them over their credit limit, the card issuer may decline the transactions or may charge consumers hefty over-limit fees. Under the Credit CARD Act of 2009, consumers must “opt in” to over-limit fees.


How Credit Card Delinquency Works:

delinquency noun
 /dɪˈlɪŋkwənsi/
 If an account is reported delinquent, then the event can have a negative effect on your credit score and curtail your ability to borrow in the future.
 
 
 an account under debt collection can remain on their credit report for seven years.
 
 Debt Collection Agency Regulations:
 bankruptcy
 
 
 Down payment: is a sum of money that a buyer pays in the early stages of purchasing an expensive good or service.
 
 They claim that No Cost EMI is ZERO interest, ZERO down payment, and ZERO processing fee. How is it possible?
 
 
 
 Sellers: are not Amazon or Flipkart, but there are others who actually sell the products or brands by getting the orders on behalf of Amazon or Flipkart. You may find the seller details while buying the product or on the bill itself.
 
 The interest payable to the bank will be offered as an upfront discount during checkout, effectively giving you the benefit of No Cost EMI
  an upfront No Cost EMI  discount
  
  excludes x includes
  *This discount excludes GST on interest amount that will be charged by your bank.
Bank may charge you GST only on the interest amount.


  
such schemes only serve the purpose of alluring and exploiting the vulnerable customers.
