We are behaving like GoldDigger infront of God.

Do you know the meaning of GoldDigger? What does it acutally means? It is the term used for the certain who is try to getting certain things from the rich/possessed person.
Some girl were called as Gold diggers just because they love not the person but the person's possetions. This kind of persons don't have any gratitude for the person and these are change the person after their need has been fulfilled.
What if the person no longer able to fullfil what gold digger wishes? The gold digger probubly next the person and look for someone else who are able.

What's their exact percise target.
1. They wants to be fullfilled.
2. They need certain things.
3. They Love under conditions. If you give me something, I would love. If you buy me something, I will stay with you.
4. They have no gratitue. In fast they don't even have pity.
5. When they need somethings, they will do anything to get.

As we all studied. How we are behaving like a GoldDigger infront God.
You have to examine yourself why you came to God? What do you need from God? What if you won't get what you wish for? Do you still with God or do you went off?

Do you still love the Lord?
Even after you won't get what you asked for?
Even after you're constantlly getting obstacles in every level.
Even after you're health became misery?
Even after you're life became a tragedy?
Even after you're bussiness went bankrupt?.


If you kind of person alway angry because you're not getting what you asked for, you're prone to be a GoldDigger.

Don't come to Lord just because you want something. Come to Lord with real love and respect. Love the Lord your God, with all of you're heart.
Even when disappointments strike you, even when things not going as you expected, even when you're not getting what you ask for. Just remember the Lord, be patiece.

Some people leave God, they grummble at God for not giving what they ask for. They treet God like a Gain(Magical wizard who's work is to fullfill wishes of the owner).
If you leave God for not fulling your request, you are behaving a GoldDigger. You tried to dig the gold, and you didn't get what you expected and you think ,"this is not working out, I have to find another way."

As we know the main commandment of the bible is Love you're Load with all of you heart?
Are you really love him? are you acting like loving him?
If you really love him, you will stay with him even after thing went worng.
If you acting, you left him just because you prayers not working.

Love the Lord as He was. Not his acts.

Today take a desicion/affirmation.
To be determined.

Lord I wanna Love you as You are. Even If my life not going in they way as I am expecting, I never leave. All I want is to be with you even in the strom/desert. I am not comeing to you with the Wish-List.
You gave me you're life, I love you.
You died for me, I love you.
You gave me athority to be children of God. You call me Friend.
What can I ask you more? How can I ask you more to prove your Love for me.
Thank you Lord, I can't thank you enough.